# THE PROPOSAL

For The Perl Conferences in North America (formerly YAPC::NA) and Europe
(formerly YAPC::Europe), there are committees to judge bid proposals and
award a winning team the opportunity to host a conference event. The North
American venue committee is governed by The Perl Foundation, while the
Europen venue committee is governed by The YAPC::Europe Foundation.

Each year, usually several months before the forthcoming event, a Call For
Venue is posted by the respective venue committees to the regular Perl news
channels and user groups, asking for interest. However, it is helpful if you
have already started to prepare a proposal before the Call For Venue is posted.

## TIMELINE 1 - THE BID

Below are the main events in the conference bid life-cycle. Refer
to this as you prepare your bid to keep yourself on track. The sections in this
chapter explain more fully the details of each step.

Ensure you time the end dates for any submissions, presentations and
announcements carefully, so you are not rushing to complete them.

### Prepare Your Team

You should not try this on your own! Wherever possible try and assemble a team
together, even if there are only 2 or 3 of you.

### Research Your Venue

Possibly the most important part of your bid to get right.

### Prepare Your Bid

Start your planning early, read other bids.

### Call for Venue

Official announcement. Read it carefully and note the deadline.

### Submit Your Bid

Ensure you submit before the deadline to the correct address.

### Committee Questions

Be prepared for questions.

### Official Announcements

What happens after the winner is decided.

# WHERE TO START?

So you've decided that you would like to host a conference. Where do you start?
Your preparation can start anything from 4-6 months to 2-3 years before
submitting your bid, and its worthwhile giving yourself time to do some research.

At its core, hosting a OpenSource technical event means providing a location for
members of your technical community (new and old) to get together, present and
discuss projects, ideas and learn from each other.  Although the Perl conferences
have grown to include many other features, these are still the main goals. As
such, your initial preparations should focus on the following criteria:

  * Prepare Your Team
  * Research Your Venue
  * Research Accommodation Options
  * Review Transport Facilities
  * Plan A Budget
  * Prepare Your Bid

## PREPARE YOUR TEAM

You cannot organise this alone. While one day workshops might
be possible for one person to handle, organizing a conference is very time
consuming and spreading the workload enables the team to function better
together, and usually gets the job done a lot quicker. Recruit local user group
members, friends or colleagues to your team, particularly if anyone you know
has an area of expertise or special contacts.

In your bid, highlight the strengths in your team. If you've organised other
conferences or workshops, let the committee know about that. The more
confidence the venue committee has in your abilities, the more reassured they
will be that you have done all that you can do to put on a great conference.

For now though, you only need to have a team. The exact tasks each person will
be responsible for can be allocated later.

Plan some initial informal meetings to brainstorm ideas.

## RESEARCH YOUR VENUE

Before you think about anything to do with the organizing of
an OpenSource conference, there is one important thing you need to remember
throughout. The conference is a means to bring together like minded souls, from
all walks of life, to meet and learn. "All walks of life" is what you need to
remember. We are all very different people and you'll need to remind yourself
occasionally, that you're not only organising a conference to get your friends
to come visit you, but also to bring new people into the community from many
diverse backgrounds and cultures. You'll need to make them feel welcome, as well
as be able to provide them with a good experience of the community, so that they
stay involved and contribute long after the conference is over. Try and be as
inclusive as possible; think about accessibility and dietary requirements.
You may not be able to accommodate everyone, but at least if you can consider
your options, your attendees will thank you for it later.

### Finding A Venue

This should be your highest priority before even considering making a bid to
host a conference. Without the venue, you don't have a conference. However,
that doesn't necessarily mean you need to have a venue booked before making the
bid. Do consider all the possible venues available to you. Being able to submit
your bid with a primary choice and one or two backup plans, shows you are
prepared in the event that your first choice is not available.

In many countries and cities you may be able to make use of educational
facilities, which have been a stable source of ready made infrastructure for
many past open source conferences. This can include universities, technical
colleges or other schools. In the UK, and possibly other countries, many schools
fall under the guidance of an LEA (Local Education Authority), which means you
will have to talk to local government before being able to use the facilities.
Many senior schools, technical colleges and universities are self funded, and
you may just need to contact the institution directly. Wherever possible try and
find someone (in the team or that you know well) that can help negotiate between
you and the education establishment, as initial informal negotiations may avail
you of facilities without the need for bureaucracy.

Many cities also have existing conference facilities, such as hotels,
theatres, libraries, concert venues, and conference halls. Church halls,
voluntary groups, training centres and large businesses may also have facilities
that are suitable. It is worth investigating all avenues, as you may be
surprised to find some are very sympathetic towards your ideals and enthusiasm.

Some venues may be so sympathetic to open source or non-profit organisations
that they are willing to offer their facilities for free or at a reduced cost.
Also consider the language used in how you present what you plan to do, as the
idea of a "Conference" can mean different things to different people. You may
want to use the alternative description of "Symposium", as it emphasises more
of the grassroots collective discussion aspects rather than a major corporate
launch pad and series of lectures, which can be misconstrued as a commercial
venture.

### Researching A Venue

Before you submit your bid, you need to do a considerable amount of research
regarding each venue. Some areas of research are obvious, while others may not
be an immediate consideration, but can cause delays if you haven't understood
the implications. This venue information should then be included in your bid.
However, since you don't know if you are going to win the bid, you can't
actually book the venue yet, and as such some of the information may not be
available to you.

Research several venues, not just the first one that looks like a good deal.
This gives you a backup plan should anything go wrong and enables you compare
the pros and cons of each venue.

### The Rooms

#### General Requirements

The Perl Conference in North America typically has around 300-500 attendees,
while The Perl Conference in Europe has about 200-400. Consider how many people
you expect to attend carefully, as the venue must be able to accommodate them all
comfortably. A Perl conference traditionally has 1 main room that can hold all
the attendees, and at least 2 other rooms that are able to hold 25%-50% of the
attendees. If you plan to have more tracks, or have a workshop/demo room, you
will need to ensure that a reasonable number of people can fit in.

Rooms should have controlled temperature environments (air-conditioned or
heated as needed). If your event is being held in an academic institution when
students are not in residence, ensure that heating or cooling facilities will
still be active.

#### Main Auditorium

The main room which is to hold the full assembly will require some form of
public address (PA) system. This may already be provided, but if not you will
need to investigate local PA companies to provide something suitable. In order
to allow speakers to move about the stage, investigate whether you can provide
wireless microphones as well as podium mics.

Smaller rooms may not require a PA system, unless the capacity is expected to be
large enough, where you will need to ensure that those at the back can still
hear suitably. If in doubt, plan for a PA.

All rooms will require data projectors, a large screen together with wired
and/or wireless Ethernet.

#### Floor Plan Layout

All the rooms should be close together. If you have 5 minutes between talks,
ensure there is time for attendees to move between the furthest rooms.

Consider the location of toilets. Sitting in a lectures for a session can mean
everyone waits until the breaks to avoid missing anything. Are the toilets close
by, do they have enough located around where your lecture rooms are, do they
provide toilets for the disabled? Although this is unlikely to be a problem,
remember that attendees will want to know where they are quickly, so mark them
clearly both on any campus map you provide and with signs around the building.

#### Breakout Area

Ensure you have breakout areas. Not everyone attends the conference to listen to
lectures for the whole duration of the conference. Are there hallways, access to
indoor and/or outdoor seating areas, or even dedicated computer access rooms or
cafeterias that could suitably be used as quiet areas or meeting points?

This may also be where the conference registration can take place, in which case
ensure you allocate space and tables for registration and information booths.

#### Storage Room

It is worthwhile having a secure room or area where you are able to store
supplies, including materials for all the attendees and all necessary equipment.
On the last day of the conference many attendees will have to checkout of their
accommodation in the morning, and many may well have large suitcases with them.
If you can use a secure storage room to store suitcases and bags, you will earn
lots of brownie points from attendees :)

### Hackathon and/or BOF Rooms

If you are planning to have hackthons and Birds of a Feather events during the
the regualr conference day, it will be worth investigating whether there are
some smaller rooms available. These need not necessarily require projectors or
screens, but should have access to internet connectivity.

### Speakers Preparation Room

If possible try and provide a separate room where speakers can prepare their
talks undisturbed. Ensure that the room is comparatively quiet and that there
are a few accessible power outlets in this room.

If you have a spare projector available this would be good to have setup to
allow speakers to test their laptops with the projector, without disturbing
on-going talks.

### Accessibility

Those with disabilities should still be able to attend your conference. Whether
they are physically disabled, hearing impaired, visually impaired or need other
accommodations, you should consider what options you have to ensure that they
can enjoy the conference experience too. The venue may already have facilities
for the hearing impaired (induction loops, dedicated headsets), or have
alternative access for anyone wheelchair bound. Ensure you understand any
limitations of the venue. Most public venues will be familiar with these issues,
including things you might not think of.

### Internet Connection & WiFi

WiFi internet access is a crucial requirement for all major conferences in this
day and age.  Typically over 80% of your attendees will have laptops or other
mobile devices, so ensure that the venue has the bandwidth and network equipment
that can cope with the capacity of all your attendees having access at the same
time.

Some venues may already have a working WiFi network and be happy for you to use
it. However, others may not have any internet connection at all and you may have
to consider buying a broadband service and connecting up your LAN and WLAN. An
existing network, that you are allowed to use and the venue can provide support
for, may be more beneficial that trying to set up and administer the network
yourself.

Any network should be secured, and should allow outbound access to the following
ports; 22 (ssh), 80/8080 (http), 115 (sftp), 443 (ssl) and 6667 (irc). If
further ports are required by attendees, you might want to suggest they use
port-forwarding in some way.

Whether DHCP or NAT is in use, ensure the network can support addressing for
approximately 120% of your attendees (many will have multiple devices). It is
also worth investigating what maximum capacity the network can cope with,
without degradation of service. While most will only be browsing the web and
reading their email, several hundred people attempting to do this at once can
put a strain on networks that are not used to it.

In previous years, some venues have provided terminal rooms, which have provided
both terminals and ethernet ports for attendees to use. As the majority of your
attendees are likely to have laptops and other mobile devices, having a terminal
room is purely optional.

### Location

Highlight where the venue is in relation to the accommodation, city centre and
transport links.

Location is very important. If your best venue is in the middle of nowhere with
limited rail and road infrastructure, and minimal access to food stores, pubs
and restaurants, then you're likely to have a very unhappy group of attendees.
The venue need not be in the city centre, but providing there are easily
accessible train, tube and/or bus networks to accommodation, night-life and
airports, it will make life easier for attendees getting to and from the venue.

Where can people go to eat and drink during the day? If your venue is an
educational institution you may have a cafeteria available to you, but also
remember that there are likely to be some attendees that have special dietary
requirements. Are there food stores, bars/pubs, restaurants and/or take away
outlets within a short walking distance that provide a bigger choice?

Where can everyone go in the evening? Are there suitable meeting places for the
majority of attendees? The evening meeting points do not need to be near the
venue, but they should be within easy reach of the hotels at least.

Also consider public safety in the area around the venue. Remember that you are
asking some hardcore geeks to attend your conference, and most will be carrying
large amounts of high-tech gadgetry around with them. Would you feel comfortable
walking around the venue with a laptop, camera and mobile phone?

### Venue Cost

Perl conferences and workshops are grassroots events and you should try
everything possible to keep attendee fees low. This allows people like
freelance developers, developers without employer support, students and those on
a limited budget to attend.

The venue is likely to be your highest cost item and it can exert significant
pressure on your attempt to keep the attendee fees down.

There are basically three choices with regard to the cost of the venue:

  1. Work all of your connections and get venues donated or offered for very
     low cost because of your status as a not-for-profit.
  2. Book with standard conference venues and increase sponsorship levels to
     support the venue.
  3. Book with standard conference venues and charge high attendance fees to
     support the venue.

So far, most Perl events have been able to take advantage of option 1, while
others have successfully managed to operate using option 2, either receiving
sponsorship from a single sponsor to cover the venue, or enabling multiple
sponsors to have rooms named after them that cover the venue costs together.
Option 3 has thankfully not been a necessary.

Note that the venue committee will take into account how the organising team
intend to cover all costs when selecting the hosts for each year.

Although you can't actually book the venue yet, when you are investigating
venues you should make every effort to enquire about the following:

  * What is required to book the venue? Deposit, signatures, insurance, etc.
  * How long before the event can you book?
  * Is someone else looking at your provisional dates?
  * What payment plans does the venue employ? (e.g. 10% deposit on booking,
    and balanced cleared one month prior to the event)

Once you win the bid, one of your first tasks will be to book the venue and that
is made all the more easier if you have the answers to the above.

You might be wondering 'why are these questions so important?' The reason sadly,
has come from previous experience. Several organising teams have had venues
booked based on verbal commitments only to have things fall through because of
confirmed and paid bookings for other events, misunderstandings in the
agreements or even the propsed venue closing for refurbishment.

Get as much information as possible to avoid any hassle when you're able to make
a confirmed booking.

When confirming your booking, ensure you understand when payment is required.
Most venues will require a deposit, and then one or two payments prior to the
event itself, with balances cleared before the event begins.

### Catering

Catering can be split into several parts, covering very different aspects of the
catering facilities that you, the local area or the venue can provide. While not
necessarily part of your bid proposal, there are some aspects of catering that
you must bear in mind, and can be useful to consider with any discussions with
the venue regarding any catering.

If you win the bid, ensure you communicate what catering you will provide to
attendees prior to their arrival.

#### Dietary Requirements

With any catering provided, ensure you consider dietary preferences. Some of
your attendees will be vegetarians or vegans, some may have food allergies or
require lactose-free or low-carbohydrate meals, while others may have
preferences based on their religious beliefs. Although you may not be able to
cater for all preferences, at least trying to provide some alternative options
will help to include, rather than alienate, many attendees.

Where food is being provided, ensure there is a vegetarian option. Also note
that vegetarian does NOT equate to salad. Particularly if you are providing hot
dishes, ensure that suitable equivalent vegetarian dishes are also available.
Ask your potential attendees for advice if you are unsure, they will appreciate
it.

Although not always possible, try and encourage your attendees to warn you in
advance of any particular requirements they have, and investigate what you can
reasonably do to accommodate them. Some will come prepared, while others may
expect you to at least direct them to suitable alternative eating
establishments.

If the meals are being served as a buffet make sure that the food options are
clearly labeled, since it might not be visible at first glimpse if a meal meets
certain dietary requirements or tastes.

With regards to clear labelling, this can be especially important if you have
attendees who speak languages other than those of the host nation. In many
cases English is used as a default, but if your event is non-English, and
attracts attendees from other non-English language countries, it may be more
suitable to use another alternative.

#### Morning & Afternoon Breaks

You should schedule a 30 minute break during the morning and afternoon sessions,
to give attendees a break from the presentations. During these breaks, ensure
you can provide tea, coffee, water and possibly some soft drinks (sodas). When
providing tea, while it might look great to provide a selection of fruit
infusions, the majority of those wishing to have tea may actually prefer
traditional tea (sometimes known as English Tea or Breakfast Tea), so make sure
it is adequately provided for both in the morning and afternoon breaks.

If it's possible, try to provide something along the lines of biscuits, cake or
fruit. This isn't always possible, and can drive your costs up, but it does help
to keep your attendees well fed during the conference.

Some venue catering will already provide refreshments for breaks in the cost of
the venue, but it is also something that you might be able to encourage
corporate sponsorship for.

#### Lunch

Providing lunch is optional, and is usually dependent on a sponsor wanting to
donate funds for this. However, it requires that the venue has suitable dining
room facilities available to attendees. Regarding sponsorship, lunch time
catering should be considered a low priority, and possibly something to only
provide should you have the necessary funds to cover all other expenses.

If you are not providing lunch as part of the conference package, you must
ensure that there are facilities nearby (e.g. university cafeteria, local cafes,
restaurants or pubs), which are capable of supplying the full assembly with a
lunch meal. Make recommendations, including any places to avoid, so that people
have a good idea where to go, rather than wasting time finding places to eat.

Provide adequate directions to local facilities. While you may be familiar with
your local area, remember that many of your attendees will not be, and some may
not even speak the local language.  Maps, either printed Google Maps or local
tourist maps can be a great help.

One option to consider, which was used by Copenhagen organisers in 2008 with a
reasonable degree of success, was to provide a light lunch bag containing some
sandwiches, a drink, a dessert and snack. It saved everyone hunting and queuing
for food outside of the venue. If you choose this option ensure that vegetarians
know which bags are for them, either by clearly marking the bags or physically
separating the groups of bags. Also provide more vegetarian portions than there
are vegetarians, as non-vegetarians may not like the meat option provided.

#### Conference Dinner

The Conference Dinner is always considered a "nice-to-have" and usually depends
on your level of sponsorship funding. However, it is a great opportunity to
gather together all the attendees on at least one evening for a meal. Usually
this happens on the first or second day of the conference, and provides a great
opportunity to hold informal events (such as Games Night or Geek Quizes) with
everyone as an ice-breaker.

If you are hoping to provide a conference dinner for everyone, think about a
location where you'll be able to hold everyone for a sit down meal. Some
conference venues can accommodate the full assembly for a sit down meal, or you
may have to investigate banqueting halls or hotels that can cater for everyone.

This is not a necessity for your bid, but it's a nice touch, so it's often worth
considering when you are looking at your conference venue.

#### Early Arrivals Dinner

Again, this is not something to be particularly concerned about for your bid
proposal, but you should revisit it nearer the event, should you be successful
in your bid.

The Early Arrivals Dinner is typically for those that are arriving ahead of
schedule and wish to meet up with everyone before the event. It takes place the
night before the first day of the conference, and is a very informal event.
Attendees are expected to pay for themselves, and the dinner is either of a
buffet style, with one price for everyone planning to meet up, or individually
priced menu options.

The meet up usually happens in a pub, bar or restaurant with private function
room facilities, although it isn't unusual for the whole place to be taken over
by event attendees (something we'll come back to later).  Hopefully attendees
will let you know whether they are planning to attend the Early Arrivals Dinner,
so you should be able to book somewhere with a good idea of numbers.

The Early Arrivals Dinner is also a chance for pre-registration, and will reduce
your time spent registering attendees when they arrive the following morning.
Registering several hundred people in a single morning is very time consuming,
and you will either end up delaying the start of the conference, or have several
disgruntled attendees who missed the beginning of the event.

### Choosing A Venue

Once you have researched all the possible venues in your area, your group of
organisers will need to decide a selection criteria and rank each venue
accordingly. Combine your lists and pick your top choice, ensuring you get all
of the same information on your second and even third choice as well. This will
give you a backup plan if the initial venue falls through. It's much easier to
quickly proceed with your second choice if you already have all of the
information.

Several organising teams have had the primary venue fall through, so please
don't assume you will get your first choice when the time comes to make a
confirmed booking.

For example, Birmingham Perl Mongers for their YAPC::Europe::2006 event,
approached over 40 venues around the city, where the educational venues were
more expensive than regular conference halls. The short list included a church,
local government offices, the central library and a concert hall. The concert
hall won. However, that was after contract negotiations fell through with a
major university and a city centre hotel. Remember that some things can go
wrong, even if you think you have secured a venue.

After you have a list of potential venues and have got enough detail about each
of them, ask yourself some questions to narrow it down:

  * Would I choose this if I were on the selection committee?
  * Would I personally want to go there?
  * Which would be easiest for me to work as coordinator?

Sometimes there are only one or two venues that stand out, but if you have more
than that, consider yourself extremely fortunate, as you now have several backup
plans.

## RESEARCH ACCOMMODATION OPTIONS

Where are your attendees going to stay?

While you are investigating your venue options, you should also bear in mind
what accommodation facilities are available nearby. If you are hosting the
conference at a university, you may be able to use the student accommodation.
However, some will prefer a more traditional hotel option. Others would also
consider Youth Hostels, so check out where your nearest one is.

Note that accommodation doesn't need to be next door, or even walking distance
from the venue, but it must have adequate transport links between the two.
Whether this is via bus, metro or train is largely immaterial, so long as you
are not expecting your attendees to get taxis or walk excessively long
distances.

Call some of the hotels and investigate whether they offer the opportunity for
discounts. Many will hold a large number of rooms and offer a discount for
conference organisers, as they are being guaranteed a significant booking for
your conference dates.

Ensure that hotels can provide ethernet (wired or wireless) capabilities, and
find out what their internet rates are for 1 day or 1 week. Some hotels offer
free WiFi in their lobby, but charge for in-room access. Free is the best
choice of course.

Do not enter into a contract with any hotel, where you are expected to cover any
shortfall for rooms not occupied. Attendees are expected to book their own
rooms. Any discounts offered should be based on the fact that you are
recommending attendees to stay at a particular hotel.

## REVIEW TRANSPORT FACILITIES

How are you expecting the attendees to get to the conference and
depart? Do you have an international airport within easy reach of the city? If
not, are there adequate road or rail transport links from the airport to your
town/city? Many attendees may be travelling from abroad, and making them travel
long distances to get to you may discourage them from attending.

Road (buses & taxis) and rail links should be suitable to enable attendees to
both reach their accommodation and the venue. Highlight all the major transport
hubs in the area, so attendees can plan cheaper travel options if they wish. For
example, London to Birmingham can be via train or coach, with the train taking
90 minutes and costs E<pound>20-E<pound>40, while a coach takes 2-3 hours and
costs E<pound>8-E<pound>15. [note that prices were correct as of 2015]

You'll need to familiarise yourselves with the directions to/from nearby
airports. If you are fortunate enough to have an international airport close by,
this may make your job slightly easier. However if the nearest international
airport is some distance away, you will need to direct travellers how to get
from the airport to your town/city. For YAPC::Europe 2005 in Braga, the local
airport was Oporto, which had a rail link, but still took some time to reach
Braga. The better and cheaper option for many was to take a taxi as a group and
split the fare.

Once attendees have arrived in your town/city, how do they get to their hotel
and the venue? Ensure that you are familiar with the local transport
infrastructure. Investigate taxi costs (airport E<8594> hotel, hotel E<8594>
venue) and whether bus/metro/train travel cards are available (per day or per
week. For example, Vienna has a 72 hour card that also provided discounts to
local tourist attractions and museums.

Some of your attendees may be close enough for them to drive. Are there suitable
parking facilities at the venue? If special parking permits are required,
investigate how much they will cost.

## PLAN A BUDGET

Your budget is crucial. How much do you expect your conference to cost?  How
much sponsorship do you anticipate? How much do you expect to charge
attendees?  How many paying attendees are you expecting? How many speakers
are you expecting to attend and for how many of them will you be paying for
travel and/or accommodation expenses?

Without an idea of your budget, you really have no idea how you are going to pay
for the conference. Your costs may be vastly different from other conferences,
and simply scaling sponsorship and attendance fees may not be appropriate.
Understand exactly what you are planning to pay for, and get some idea of costs.
While these figures may not be accurate, you should try and get estimates for
all your big essential items, then plan for it all to cost at least 10% more;
this can be taken into account by adding an "unbudgeted" item to your estimation.

At this point in time, you will not know how many people will attend, how many
sponsors you will attract and, ultimately, how much money you will have to cover
your costs. However, you do have a lot of previous budgets and actual numbers, which
can help to give you some idea. Be conservative in your expectations. You must
be able to cover your basic costs before any extravagant items are included in
your budget.

Your costs largely fall into two categories, necessities (the venue, break
catering, travel and accommodation for your high profile speakers, insurance,
various sundry items), and luxuries (t-shirts, the conference dinner and
proceedings programme). The latter items should all be considered only after you
have covered all costs for your main items.

Another possible division is fixed costs, which do not depend on the number
of people coming in, such as the venue, WiFi and so no, and variable costs,
like the number of meals. It is important to budget in such a way that fixed
costs are covered no matter what, because they do have to be covered.

## PREPARE YOUR BID

With your initial team assembled, research in progress and a
budget outline, you're now in a position to begin preparing your bid proposal.
Many bid submissions from previous years are available online, so it is very
worthwhile reviewing these. If you're not able to find previous bids, ask the
venue committee to point you towards past examples. Remember that the venue
committee themselves are made up of previous organisers and are there to help
you make a successful bid.

Previous bids provide great examples of the kinds of things that the venue
committee are expecting you to include in your bid. But what NEEDS to go into a
proposal?  As a bare minimum, your bid document should include the following:

  * **Your Team** - who is working with you, and who are the points of
    contact.

  * **Your Location** - where are you in relation to the world and your
    country? How are people going to get there?

  * **Primary Venue Choice** - include enough of your research to give a
    good background to your venue's suitability. You can mention you have
    other choices, but focus on your primary venue.

  * **Transportation** - describe notable transport infrastructure, together
    with rough costs (if you can) and travel time for taxis, buses, trains
    and metros between airport, accommodation and venue.

  * **Accommodation** - highlight where hotels/hostels/dorms are in relation
    to your venue, and some idea of cost for a single room and double room
    for hotels. This need not be exact, but must be enough to give a reasonable
    impression of costs for attendees.

  * **Budget** - possibly the most important aspect of your proposal, as the
    committee will want to know how you expect to pay for everything.

  * **Provisional Dates** - while not absolutely necessary, it can be
    helpful to make the committee aware of the dates that you are
    considering.

  * **Local Attractions** - list some tourist attractions, festivals & other
    events that will be happening around the same time.

  * **Supporting Information** - if you have some secondary choices for
    venues, or other information that might aid your bid, feel free to add
    it in brief. Possibly include links to websites for the reader to
    investigate themselves.

After all the research, you'll now need to assemble it all into a document that
can be submitted to the venue committee. How you present the document is
entirely up to you, but at the very least provide a standard formatted document
file, e.g. PDF, Office Document (MS Word or Libre Office Writer), POD file or
plain text file. In addition you may wish to supply a link to a website or wiki
with further information and videos or photo galleries to provide visual
examples of the location, venue, etc.

No matter what you put into your proposal you will always get asked some
questions by the venue committee as they try to judge between your proposal and
any others. The venue committee always tries to evaluate the proposals on equal
terms, so if you do omit any important details, you are likely to get asked to
provide further information.

While it might seem obvious to present your venue choices, don't forget to
include as much as possible to support your bid.

### Your Location

Where are you in the world and/or your country? How are you expecting people to
travel to your town/city? Remember that you are likely to have some
international travellers, who may not speak your native language. You may be
fortunate enough to have a local tourist information bureau that can provide
details for promoting your town/city.

### Provisional Dates

The dates for your conference should be considered carefully. Discuss the dates
you are planning to propose with your primary (and secondary) choice of venue to
ensure that they have those dates available to you.

Dates are not just important for booking the venue, but also for getting your
attendees to come to your conference. Do you have any special world or national
famous events taking place before or after your conference? Are hotel and flight
costs going to reflect that? For example, flying to or via a country hosting the
World Cup around the time of your event can increase flight costs alone by 4 or
5 times.

However, local celebrations may also be a good reason to persuade attendees to
bring partners and/or extend their stay to take in more of your city. Munich
hosted YAPC::Europe 2002 the week before Oktoberfest, Paris hosted YAPC::Europe
2003 prior to the weekend when the Tour de France came through the streets of
Paris and Toronto hosted their YAPC::NA 2005 during a month long celebration
with firework displays.

### Local Attractions

Does your town/city offer any interesting tourist attractions, or have an
annual festival that attendees might be interest in attending too? What will
attract people to your town/city beyond the conference? It's always worth
listing a few reasons why people might want to come to your town/city, even if
you weren't hosting a conference. Some attendees often extend their visit to
take in some sightseeing, so it's worth getting a little background information
to add to your bid.

Are there famous places or landmarks nearby that attendees might like to visit?
Are there any interesting facts about your city/town that attendees might not
know? Toronto had all the Rush (the band) haunts to visit, both Toronto and
Buffalo had Niagara Falls close by, Birmingham had the history of JRR Tolkien
(Perrott's Folly and Sarehole Mill) and Shakespeare (Stratford-upon-Avon) to
draw on, Chicago had The Sears Tower (now The Willis Tower) and well Paris is
Paris!

Check out some of the local history, there's always something hidden away that
might be a fun fact to help promote your event.

### Submitting Your Bid

The venue committee usually announces the method for which you should submit
bids, but file or online documents are usually the most appropriate. The members
of the committee will have questions for you, so ensure you include who should
be contacted (and how) for further questions. If you have a group helping with
the proposal set up a mailing list (see note below) so that all the group
members can respond. Having one point of contact can be a bottleneck if that
person falls ill or is on holiday.

While you may have grand ideas to submit your bid in an unusual form, always
ensure you have some form of standard document to accompany it. Several groups
have previously submitted videos to help introduce the organisers and show why
they think you should choose their city, however standard documentation was
also submitted.

If after submitting your proposal, you suddenly discover that you have further
relevant information to provide to the venue committee, feel free to contact
them further and provide it. The venue committee are well aware how stressful it
can be to compile a proposal, as they've all done it themselves. They are also
looking to award the bid to a host that can put on the best possible conference,
so any additional material that supports your bid is often very welcome.

### Expect Questions

When you submit your proposal, the venue committee will begin to discuss
it, together with all the other proposals they have received. Their aim is to
give the opportunity of hosting a conference to the team that they feel will
provide the best conference possible. As such, they are not going to dismiss your
proposal simply because you have not mentioned something that they feel is
important. Rather they will compile additional questions that you will need to
answer promptly.

In order to respond to questions, ensure you provide a contact email address
with your proposal. This can be a single person, a group of people or a
dedicated organisers mailing list address. Whichever you choose, ensure someone
is able to respond.

So what questions can you expect? Well it largely depends on how good the
proposals are. In some instances only brief supplementary information is needed,
while at other times, there may be something quite important missing. Some
questions that nearly always get asked include:

  * Can the Wifi support every attendee at once?
  * Are there enough power outlets for everyone to use a laptop?
  * Do venue rooms have disabled access?
  * How do you plan to promote the conference?

These are only a few examples, and often it can help if you think ahead and try
and review your proposal and ask yourself what would you want to know more
about?

## THE VENUE COMMITTEE

The Venue Committee consists of previous organisers. So they
all know what you have ahead of you. While they know some of the pitfalls, they
don't necessarily know any you may face. However, they are there to help you. If
you have any questions, feel free to approach them at any time. Even months
before you submit your proposal.

The Venue Committee has several responsibilites. They make all initial official
announcements, they vote on the proposals submitted, they help with any
kick-start funding and will liaise with you throughout your preparations after
winning the bid.

### The Call For Venue

A Call For Venue announcement will be posted to several Perl news channels and
websites, asking for groups to consider subnmitting a proposal to host a Perl
Conference, usually about six months before the current year's event. The
announcement will include the contact for the committee and how proposals should
be submitted.  Most importantly it contains a deadline for submissions. Do not
forget this.

If you are planning to submit a proposal, please contact the venue committee and
tell them of your intention. If for any reason your proposal doesn't appear by
the deadline, they can at least contact you to find out if there was any delay
or miscommunication beyond your control.

Also if you expect a delay in your submission, contact the venue committee as
soon as possible. They are usually agreeable to a short extension, providing
they know in advance.

The deadline is usually about 2 months before the current Perl Conference, to
give the committee time to review proposals and prepare winners and
presentations.

### Venue Committee Timeline

From the Call For Venue deadline, the venue committee then begins a private
discussion period, where they consider all the proposals. They have a tight
timescale in which to discuss, respond and vote, so please ensure you respond to
any questions they may have promptly. The typical timescale is as follows:

  * Week 1 - Venue Committee reviews proposals and prepares any additional
    questions they may have.
  * Week 2 - Additional questions sent to proposal partiesm, with usually a
    one week deadline for responding to the Venue Committee.
  * Week 3 - Venue Committee reviews questions and discusses all proposals.
  * Week 4 - Voting. Each member of the Venue Committee submits her or his
    vote.
  * Week 5 - Venue Committee makes recommendation to the board (if
    appropriate), sends request for acknowledgement from winners, and
    commisserations to others.

Note that a week above may be reduced to a few days if there is a very tight
timescale needed.

As already noted, expect questions from the venue committee. Some may seem
trivial, others you may consider to have already been answered, make sure you
follow them all up clearly. It is important to note that the way you have
presented your proposal may not be how the venue committee read it. If there is
anything that they request clarification of, please don't respond by saying it's
already in your proposal, they have asked because they want more detail or a
clearer explanation of what you provided. If in doubt, ask the venue committee
for clarification as to what level of detail is required.

When the committee has received all the proposals and responses to any
additional questions, they will discuss and vote on each team. The criteria for
voting varies each year, with each member of the committee casting their vote.
Do not feel too defeated if your proposal is not selected. Often it can be a
close run choice between two proposals and the winner may be decided on minor
details.

If you do not win, by all means contact the venue committee and ask them for
feedback.  If you are attending the current Perl Conference, one or more
members of the venue committee will likely be in attendance too, and are often
happy to discuss your proposal with you, and more importantly encourage you
to submit again for the next year. There have been several proposals that have
been submitted repeatedly, many subsequently winning the opportunity to host the
event.

### Official Winner Announcements

There are usually three stages to announcing the winning bid. The first is to
let the bidders themselves know privately. The winning bid will be told first,
and be asked to confirm their acceptance. This is just in case that an
unforeseen circumstance means they cannot continue with their bid. After this,
the remaining proposing teams are told they have been unsuccessful. All teams
are asked to keep the results a secret until the winning team is officially
announced.

The second stage is to announce the winner to the conference attendees for the
current year. This often features a short presentation by the winning team, to
encourage the current attendees to come along to your conference. This may be
your first opportunity for you to introduce yourself and your team to the
attendees.

The third stage is then to announce the winners online to the Perl community,
via the usual news and blog channels. This usually begins with an official
announcement from the venue committee, but in the current age of social media
the attendees may well get there first!

After the official venue committee press release, you may wish to make your own
press release. It is not required, and most organisers wait until they are ready
for their first newsletter some months later, but you are more than welcome to
do so. If you have something to announce early, such as the dates or the
website, feel free to do so as it is often very much appreciated if you can.

Then the fun really begins!
