# THE PREPARATION (the First Six Months)

You've won the bid, and now you will need to prepare yourselves for the work
ahead. Some aspects of organising will be fun, some will be agonising, while
others will be a mix of both. Take a deep breath, it will come together.

At this early stage, despite any pleadings and honourable requests, DO NOT
commit to anything that could potentially derail your plans. Focus on the
essential parts of the conference organisation first. You'll have plenty of time
to schedule other activities and requests later.

## TIMELINE 2 - THE FOUNDATIONS

Below are the main events in the first phase of the actual conference
preparation life-cycle. As before, refer to this as you prepare for the
conference to make sure you are on track and haven't missed anything.

### Plan Your Project

Outline tasks and priorities.

### Establish Your Team

You'll need one!

### Book the Venue

Sign the contract and pay the deposit.

### Announce the Dates

If you can announce dates as early as possible, but not before booking the
venue.

### Design Your Website

Start working on your website, its the key promotional aid for your event.

### Find Sponsors

Start approaching previous sponsors as well as any new or local sponsors.

These are tasks which usually begin about a year in advance of your event. It is
important all these get started early, as these are the foundations of the work
you will be concentrating on for the six months prior to your event.

## PLAN YOUR PROJECT

It cannot be emphasised enough how important a project plan is.
A year before your event, you will need to start several tasks at once, and
managing them efficiently is a necessity. Organising a conference requires you
to establish priorities all the time, and having a project plan will better
identify those tasks which fall on your critical path.

Your first priorities in your project plan should focus on the following:

  * Establish Your Team
  * Book The Venue
  * Prepare Your Sponsorship Pack

Everything else you can deal with later, but these three will need to be
completed very quickly. Once you have these in hand you can then turn your
attentions to the following:

  * The Venue (Wifi, Power, Projectors, Catering, etc)
  * Sponsorship
  * Insurance
  * Promotion
  * Accommodation
  * Speakers (Call For Papers, Scheduling)
  * Attendees (Registration, Directions)

Then that's it. The rest is really gravy -- quite a bit of important gravy --
but just gravy. When you are planning a conference, keep this list in mind. These
are your "big rocks" and if you are spending a lot of time on something and one
of these is not covered, you'll need to reconsider your priorities. On the flip
side, if you have all of these in place, don't stress too much if something else
falls through.

For your first team meeting you'll need to cover all of the above topics, and
ensure that at least one person is going to be responsible for each area.

### Your Project Plan

Write a project plan. This is a major project you are undertaking, and you need
to plan it carefully. Update the project plan regularly, as it will help you
keep tabs on who is doing what and how they are progressing. It can help you
decide who should be handed a future task based on how well that person
completes their prior tasks.

You don't need fancy software, a simple spreadsheet or pen and paper will work
fine. Just keep a record of who is doing what and all approaching deadlines.

A project plan is very useful to keeping you aware of deadlines, and highlight
the critical path of tasks that have the potential to delay the whole project if
they are not kept on course. Make sure that everyone is aware of deadlines. They
need to know when they shouldn't pester someone, when that person is busy trying
to complete an important task.

### Allocating Tasks

Before everyone heads off with their favourite task, take some time to properly
define all the tasks required. Break larger ones down to smaller bitesize chunks
that could be handed to several different people if the need arises. Review the
tasks to ensure you understand what is expected of them and give estimates for
time and effort involved.

Once you've identify every task (or at least the initial tasks to get you
started), you'll need to start allocating people to them. Some people may be
obvious choices while others may need to find their feet. Don't over burden
anyone, especially at this stage, as it's more important to get things started
and moving.

Emphasise to your team that life throws curve-balls every now and then, and that
it isn't a problem to say that they don't have time to complete a task,
providing they tell you as soon as possible. Not everyone will listen, and you
may find some team members have a change in personal priorities, putting an
important task to one side without telling anyone. Having regular catch-up
meetings usually help to spot these situtaions.

Weekly updates often also help to identify where problem areas might need
attention, as some team members might leave it until the last minute to complete
their tasks.

Regularly review how team members are coping with tasks, as when it comes to
allocating tasks in the later planning stages, you'll need to ensure that high
priority tasks are given to people you can rely on to complete the task
promptly.

### Meetings

If possible, try and arrange regular face to face planning meetings, especially
for the local crew, that will need to be assigned tasks that require leg work
around the venue and local area. Aim to have at least monthly meetings, with
regular weekly catch ups on IRC, mailing lists, video conferencing systems
(e.g. Skype, FaceTime or Zoom) or other communication mediums.

It is VERY important to have these meetings and follow up sessions, so
that everyone knows the current status of the project. If anyone has been
assigned a task and hasn't had time to deal with it, you'll need to know and
reassign if necessary. You will have to reassign occasionally, but hopefully not
too often.

Set an agenda ahead of the planning meetings and mail it, together with the
outstanding task list, to all those involved at least a few days before hand to
give everyone a chance to follow up anything they have forgotten. You will need
to remind people of their tasks, as not everyone will be as passionate about
conference organisation as you are.

Meetings are not just about the allocation or completion of tasks, they are also
about bringing your team together. Share ideas, brainstorm problems, motivate
and praise. Whether they admit it or not, every team member, including yourself,
likes to feel appreciated and feel like they are included in discussions.

You may find you have a quiet team member who is very good at spotting potential
issues before they become a problem, or maybe a team member who finds they have
a previously undiscovered talent. At this early stage try and be as inclusive as
possible, and let the team members settle into their roles. As time progresses
you'll see who needs help and who can be trusted with high risk tasks.

Take the opportunity at meetings to make sure everyone understands a particular
task. If there is any confusion, textual communictation (via IRC or email) can
add to the misunderstandings. Sitting down face to face, even as an ad-hoc
one-to-one meeting with a team member, may be enough to resolve any issues.
Most of all don't be afraid to ask. This goes for your team members as well as
you.

## ESTABLISH YOUR TEAM

No-one can organise a conference on their own. You don't need a
big team, but many hands make light work. While you may have a core team, you
should also look to recruit others who can help with some of the smaller tasks.
That's not to say that you need 20 or so people. Most groups usually have two to
four key individuals that make the decisions and a few more that help with
specific tasks.

Also, remember that not everyone in your team needs to be local. Many tasks can
be performed remotely, even in another country, as there is plenty of online
communication required via email and websites.

Within the team, each person needs to be responsible for at least one
significant role. They may be responsible for more than one, but ensure you
spread the workload. If one person gets allocated responsiblity for the most
time-consuming roles, you are likely to either fall behind or lose that person's
input completely if they feel like they've been stitched up.

### Conference Planning Team and Responsibilities

#### The Primary Organizer

This document uses the familiar 'you' in many cases when referring to tasks.
However, if you are the primary organizer, this really means you and your team.
Pulling off a conference really requires that you have a team of dedicated people
helping you.

If you don't have a team of helpers, you really need to get one. Ask the members
of your local Perl Mongers group if they can get involved. You may also find
others further afield that may be willing to help if you advertise. As the event
approaches, your goal is to have no tasks assigned to you (or very few). That
way, you can jump in and help with whatever needs attention without abandoning
something. You need to be the project manager, directing the tasks and reviewing
the work, rather than have anything that has a high demand on your attention.
Just coordinating things will take up plenty of your time.

YAPC in Buffalo had 4 coordinators in the main group working throughout the
planning process and about 20+ volunteers during the conference. In Toronto
about 20 people (nearly all of the Toronto.pm members) helped with planning and
execution. Remember, many hands make light work (as long as you are coordinating
and the hands know what to do).

Above all, don't be a martyr. This event should be fun for you, your team, and
everyone else involved.

#### Website Administrator

This role is really just to ensure that someone is responsible for getting your
website online, and keeping the content updated. See the section Design Your
Website, for further details required of this role.

#### Publicity Officer

This should either be someone well known within your team in the Perl community,
or someone who is good with public relations. This means the focus from the
outside world is on one person to ask questions of, while the other members of
the team are busy with other tasks. This is not to say that the other members of
the team shouldn't help out, but having one person who distributes all the press
releases and promotes them in a printed and online form, helps to keep
continuity.

Avoid using the same person in your team to act as publicity officer AND as
sponsor liaison. This role can be very time consuming and trying to answer
questions from all sides can be very draining.

#### Speaker Liaison

Someone from your team needs to handle all the email communication between
yourselves and speakers. Many speakers will need hand holding to give you the
right information, while others are old hands and will provide everything you
need in the first email. Once you decide a schedule, you'll need to ensure that
speakers are happy to speak and are still planning to attend.

Avoid using the same person in your team to act as speaker liaison AND as
sponsor liaison. This role can often work well together with the publicity
officer.

#### Sponsor Liaison

After initial contact with sponsors, you will need someone to look after all
their requirements. Even though you may not have many sponsors, they will be
demanding of your time. Keep sponsors up to date of progress every so often, so
they know you haven't forgotten them. Take the opportunity to remind them of
important dates (especially parcel delivery deadlines) in good time (at least a
week), so that if they have forgotten, they have a chance to follow up
straight-away.

Avoid using the same person in your team to act as sponsor liaison AND as
publicity officer. Again this can be an extremely time consuming role,
especially as the conference draws closer. Knowledge of logistics is definitely
an added bonus.

#### Venue Liaison

At least one person should be a point of contact with the venue. Over time this
may end up being more than one person, as specific responsibilities may require
them to contact the venue for specific information. However, you should have at
least a primary contact who deals with the contract negotiation. Your venue
liaison will likely need to ensure that Wifi, power, catering, etc are all
planned and invoiced well in advance.

Ideally the venue liaison will find a counterpart from the venue. The Venue
Liaison should meet with that person and introduced themselves to the key
people at the venue (janitor for keys/access to parking/rooms, missing tables,
chairs, ...; technician for cables, power etc.).

Personal contact before the conference starts is important, so you can get a
feel of how to addess these people and they can get a better understanding of
what to expect too. A good working relationship with venue staff is crucial
as you will need to be flexible with them to address any unplanned issues
that can occur.

#### Accommodation Liaison

Once you have a designated primary conference hotel, like the venue liaison,
someone will need to be a point of contact for negotiating deals. While the
whole team needs to agree deals, having one person contact hotels and initiate
conversations ensures you have a consistent presence.

In some cases you may not be able to arrange a deal, but at the very least try
to research costs and types of accommodation, so that you can advertise them to
the attendees as soon as possible. If your venue is a hotel, the Venue Liaison
can double up with this role.

#### Network Administrator

You will need internet access at the venue. If you don't, you aren't likely to
get a good response from the speakers or the attendees. This person usually
doubles as venue liaison, as much of the discussion and site visits will be
around arranging network access.

Knowledge of networking is really needed here. If anyone in your local user
group, or Linux user group, is willing to help with this, it will make life much
easier for you.

### The Runners

If you have anyone in your team that is willing to help, but either doesn't have
the time or the ability to take on a major responsibility, you can still use
them. There are lots of activities where you will need someone to help with
small tasks. Many of these people will become invaluable immediately before and
during the event, so don't be afraid to ask them for help.

## BOOK THE VENUE

Ideally you should book your venue as soon as you have won the
bid, but you will need to sign some form of contract at least 6 months
(preferably sooner) prior to the start of the conference. Confirm dates with the
venue and provide a booking deposit, if you can, to secure the venue on the
dates you require. Some venues may be happy to hold the dates for you and wait
for you to pay the deposit a few months prior to the conference.

However, paying a deposit can be extremely difficult to do if you start with no
funds. Thankfully help is usually at hand. Previous organisers, TPF/YEF and
early sponsors may be able to provide a kick-start donation that can cover the
deposit amount. The deposit itself can vary from around 10% of the hiring costs,
to 100%, and really depends on the agreement you've struck with the venue.

If you are unable to paid the deposit in full, you will need to find some
notable sponsorship ahead of time, to ensure you can cover this and any
other deposits that will need to be paid well in advance of the event.

Most venues will expect some form of deposit with the full amount settled in
installments or paid full by a set date. Thankfully, some venues are very
accommodating and will allow you to settle after the event. Whichever way you
need to pay, do not miss any payments. Remember the venue is the key ingredient
to the event, without it, you don't have an event. Paying on time, and keeping
good relationships with the venue staff has other benefits. If the venue staff
have a very positive experience with you, during the event you can find they are
very accommodating with any unforeseen requests. If they have found you
difficult to deal with, they are less likely to agree to helping you should you
need it.

## ANNOUNCE THE DATES

If you haven't announced your dates six months before the conference begins or
at the beginning of the calendar year (whichever is sooner), at least try and
put out an announcement about when you will be announcing dates.

Everyone attending your conference needs to either book holiday or training
time. The earlier they know when the conference is, the easier it is for them to
plan their activities around you.

However, do not annouce dates until you have booked the venue. Changing dates
later can be very costly, particular when speakers and attendees have made plans
for your original dates and cannot change them.

## CONFERENCE THEME

While you're in the early stages of planning, think about whether you want a theme
for your event. Some conferences choose a theme to encourage talks regarding a
specific topic, though you will get talk submissions on a vareity of topics, but
some speakers will tailor their talks to fit the theme.

An appropriate theme can help inspire logo and style branding for the event,
which can then be used on the website and in any literature you produce. It will
add to the professional look of the event, and give corporate sponsors and
managers a good impression of your event.

Note that it isn't a requirement to have a theme, so don't worry if you can't
think of one, or don't want one.

## DESIGN YOUR WEBSITE

You need an official site. This will be your primary focus point for
announcements and information about the conference, and will be used before,
during and after your event. It won't just be attendees and speakers that will
be viewing your website, but corporate managers and potential sponsors, so make
sure it looks like your putting on a professional conference that's worth
sending employees to and/or providing funding for.

The website is where you announce the major activities leading up to and during
the conference. As such, you should consider a content management system, such
as ACT (formerly 'A Conference Toolkit'), and enable your team to add, edit and
publish content. You will need someone to be the administrator of the site, to
ensure that broken links and typos are fixed, and that everything is published
in a consistent and professional style.

Create a wiki for the attendees (note that ACT contains a wiki as part of
the tool suite). Your attendees will want to contribute to your conference, so
give them that ability, and allow them to build upon the official content of
the event. There are some basic pages you can include to get people started, but
largely the content is driven by the users themselves. Be cautious of wiki
spam, although using a login mechanism usually eliminates this.

The main website must prominently promote the sponsors as they sign up. This
should be part of your sponsorship deal anyway, but it does help to increase
interest among the community and can help raise the conference profile in search
engine rankings. Include sponsor logos and links on every page (in a sidebar
preferably) and have a more detailed sponsor page, which not only includes more
details about your sponsors, but also provides information of how companies and
individuals can sponsor your event.

Note that if you have chosen a theme for your conference, make sure you use it as
a tag-line prominently. Aside from encouraging ideas for talks, it also gives
your event a level of branding. Use branding consistently with your style and
layout across the site, and include Perl and TPF/YEF logos as appropriate. This
will help corporate managers and sponsors identify with you, and feel reassured
that you are not an isolated event, but supported by the whole community.

## FIND SPONSORS

Sponsorship is likely to be your biggest source of income for
your event. While registration fees will cover a good portion of costs, you will
need to find sponsors both big and small to help cover the remaining costs.

While some organisations and businesses are often very sympathetic to the aims
of a Perl Conference, some will also need convincing. Those who have either
sponsored a conference previously, or have a sponsorship programme may well be
your first priority. After that, look for companies that have invested in Perl
for projects and jobs, as they may also be willing to help.

Although it has been suggested several times, there isn't a reliable sponsor
contact list. However, previous organisers may still be able to help. Contact
previous organisers to get an idea of which companies to target, as well as
their thoughts on who is likely to be a lot of hassle for little or no reward.

### Sponsorship Levels

Before approaching your prospective sponsors, you'll need to decide what levels
of sponsorship you will provide and what you will include in the package for
each level.

Typically there are 4 tiers of sponsorship. From top to bottom each sponsor
level gets a decreasing amount of exposure. You will need to establish what
you will offer at each level. All levels should have some degree of recognition
in terms of a logo on your website, name mentioned in the press releases and
such like. However, what additional benefits you apply is largely covered either
by what you can offer, or simply on the monetary value that a sponsor provides.

While small contributions are still valuable to you, your focus should be on
large cash donations. The split between levels is down to you and how you plan
to cover your budget. When you approach a sponsor try and gauge the level you
expect them to be at and tone your proposition accordingly. For example, a
corporate sponsor may want to ensure they have a higher profile by being a top
sponsor, so open your proposition with the fact that you consider them to be a
significant sponsor. You can always negotiate downwards, but rarely upwards.

You should also encourage local sponsors, but remember that they may not be able
to contribute a large monetary donation. They may be able to provide something
of considerable value to your budget (e.g. free loan of technical equipment), so
it can be worth giving them an appropriate level of sponsorship that represents
the time and materials they have contributed.

Also consider local venues, such as bars or restaurants. Remember you could be
directing several hundred people towards somewhere to eat and drink in the
evening.

### Sponsorship Types

#### Corporate Sponsors

These are the big guns for conference sponsorship. Many already sponsor IT
conferences around the world, so this can both be a stumbling block and a way
in. If a corporate sponsor already supports open source conferences, then you
either find that they are sympathetic to your ideals and aims and the process is
relatively easy, or you need to justify what additional benefit they will get in
sponsoring you.

This can be hard work, but worth pursuing, as they are often able to sponsor for
large monetary donations and can make your organising and budget a lot easier to
work with.

Note that for corporations, a big sponsorship deal is just as much work for them
to approve as a small one, so don't be afraid to aim high.

#### International Sponsors

These sponsors have offices in multiple locations around the world or promote
their product internationally, and can see a benefit that the association with
an international conference can bring. Many recruit in the kind of locations
that many attendees are likely to be arriving from, so they have an easy access
to promote themselves to a target audience.

These sponsors are not necessarily at the same level as your corporate sponsors,
but often have a sponsorship or marketing budget that they would use to make
donations.

#### National Sponsors

National sponsors typically only have offices in the country where the
conference is being held. They sponsor the event as a means to raise their own
profile or as a thank you to the Perl community for the code base they have been
using to create their own works.

They often have a small budget, so don't expect them to be a big sponsor.
However, a few national sponsors can often match the donation of a large
corporate sponsor.

#### Local Sponsors

Local sponsors are those found in the city where your event is taking place.
Often these may be web design shops, print shops, bars, restaurants and other
small businesses. Some may have a very small budget with which they can be cash
sponsor, but some may be willing to offer reductions in their services (tshirt,
leaflet or booklet printing) in return for promoting them.

Remember your website is likely to get a high Google ranking compared to their
own website, so it can help raise their web profile if that is important to
them.

#### Media Sponsors

Media sponsors mostly fall into two categories; Book Publishers and Magazine
Publishers. The former usually provides books that you can use in your auction,
while the latter will promote you to their readership and occasionally include
articles before the event to give you even more exposure.

#### Community Sponsors

Sponsorship from the community varies considerably. Some individuals are willing
to donate small sums to help you out, while others can offer their time and
services to help you. These kinds of sponsors will approach you, rather than you
having to look for them, so providing a sponsorship pack is often enough to
encourage this type of sponsor.

### The Sponsorship Pack

Sponsorship is used to lower the cost of participation and raise the quality of
what you can offer during the event, in return for good will, positive company
recognition and promotion, and the ability for the company to tap into a large
skill set and potentially recruit staff. What the company gets back is very
important, they will not sponsor you for nothing in return. Prepare a
sponsorship pack to highlight some of the great positives that a company can get
out of sponsoring your event.

You will need to explain what you are able to provide for sponsors and more
importantly what you expect of them. Part of this might be to list what items
you might be willing to allow sponsors to be associated with, e.g. Room Name,
Lunch, T-shirts, Conference Dinner, Speaker Sponsorship, etc.

You should also describe what levels of sponsorship you expect, with appropriate
monetary values, and what types of items you would include. As an example, the
table below describes the sponsorship levels of the Italian Perl Workshop for
2009, and provides a good outline of what could be is required and provided at
each level of sponsorship.

#### Italian Perl Workshop Example

|                                                                             | Supporter (€150) | Silver (€300) | Gold (€600) | Platinum (€1200) | Diamond (€2500) |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|---------------|-------------|------------------|-----------------|
| Workshop gadgets (T-shirt, ...)                                             | Yes              | Yes           | Yes         | Yes              | Yes             |
| Company name and logo on the Web page, with indication of the level of sponsorship |  Yes      | Yes           | Yes         | Yes              | Yes             |
| Company name and logo in the Final Program, and in all press releases, with indication of the level of sponsorship | | Yes | Yes | Yes          | Yes             |
| One poster or company banner in the conference rooms and in the common area |                  | Yes           | Yes         | Yes              | Yes             |
| Introduction of the company, during the Workshop                            |                  |               |             | 10 min           | 20 min          |
| Paid places at the attendees' dinner                                        |                  | 1             | 2           | 3                | 4               |

In the above example, the organisers were only accepting sponsorship donations
as part of the overall conference costs. However, for larger sponsors it often
does make a difference if they can be associated with something specific. Naming
a room after a sponsor, or associating them with the Conference Dinner are
typical examples for sponsors who make very large donations.

If you feel comfortable with it, you may also wish to allow larger corporate
sponsors a time slot in your schedule to present a talk about themselves. As
many attendees could potentially be turned off by a blatant marketing talk,
encourage the sponsor to give a technically weighted talk about themselves or
their product, perhaps a case study of how they've used Perl. Most of the
attendees are developers, and do not make decisions for their company, but
they may have influence in suggesting a particular company.

Some companies may wish to be involved in a Job Fair. Several Perl events now
feature this as way to encourage additional smaller sponsorship. Many
international and national businesses may wish to recruit IT developers, and
your event may offer a great incentive to talk to several potential hires all
at once.

For large corporate sponsors you may wish to provide free tickets to the event
for their staff. Perhaps four places for top level sponsors and two places
for second level sponsors. You could also offer places on any special classes
being held before and after your event with professional trainers.

You can probably think of other incentives for sponsors, but make sure you
clearly define the packages available, ensuring the bigger the package the more
benefits the sponsors will receive.

### Suggested Levels

The naming of levels is encouraged, but use names that imply incremental
importance. Suggested levels would be:

  * Platinum
  * Gold
  * Silver
  * Bronze

You will often find these used at conferences, as they are a clear indicator of
the increasing sponsorship donation. Remember you are promoting a professional
conference so don't get too carried away with the naming. If a level isn't clear
to a sponsor they will likely not clearly see the benefits you are offering, and
be less inclined to sponsor your event.

### Sponsorship Brouchure

For YAPC::Europe 2006 in Birmingham, the organisers produced a brochure for
sponsors, which was available as a PDF. Initial contact with sponsors would
include the brochure, and if a positive response was received from a sponsor, a
contract document would then be sent.

Your brochure should include detailed explanations of the packages for each
sponsorship level. Clearly outline what benefits you will offer, and what
monetary donations you would expect to receive at each level. Provide a range
rather than a specific amount, with the bottom value being the sum you would
expect for that level of sponsorship. Some sponsors may pay more, but most will
want to get the most for as minimum possible.

You will need to include details about who you are, and what the event means to
the community. Some sponsors may never have heard of Perl or you, so they will
want some background to reassure them. Many larger sponsors may also want to get
an idea of the numbers and the types of people attending your conference. Take a
look at The Conference Surveys website and glean as much information as you can
to support your numbers.

### Sponsorship Contract

Establishing a written contract between you and the sponsor is extremely
important. Remember you are a grassroots conference, and that you are dealing
with large corporations. The person you are dealing with needs to provide
guarantees to their superiors that their donation is to be used responsibly.
The contract should outline the expectations of both parties.

The original brochure and contract agreement used by Birmingham.pm, are now
available as templates for free download. See the Resources section in APPENDIX
A.

With any contract agreement, you are advised to seek professional legal
representation before agreeing a contract with another party. Some government
funded entities exist that can provide support for this (e.g. The Citzens Advice
Bureau in the UK), while some legal companies can provide pro-bono advice.

### Approaching Sponsors

You can approach sponsors as soon as you've won the bid, but you are likely to
get a better response if you are able to show that you have a venue and dates
already scheduled. When contacting a sponsor, include your sponsorship pack so
that prospective sponsors understand what they are sponsoring. Some low-key
sponsors are happy to sponsor open source conferences as a way of saying thank
you to the community for providing the software they use. Major corporations and
large businesses, however, typically have a marketing team that deal with
sponsorship, who may not know anything about open source, or the fact that they
use it as a major part of their business.

Trying to find a list of sponsors to approach can be extremely daunting.
However, remember that previous organisers have already been there. Talk to
them, and get contact information, and approach the contacts as soon as you can.
Also bear in mind that many Perl Mongers work for some of these big names, so it
might not be as daunting as you first think.

It may be beneficial to call on contacts within local and national
organisations, who you think might be sympathetic to your event. Particularly if
you know they use Perl and may be considering hiring soon.

Once you have a brochure and website online, you are in a better position to
promote your sponsorship opportunities. Use social networking sites to get the
word out to anyone who may have contacts that could help you. Post on Twitter,
LinkedIn, Facebook and any suitable site that may increase your exposure.

We'll cover more on social networking and promotion in more depth in the next
chapter, under the section Communications.

### Dealing With Sponsors

If a business has a marketing department that handles sponsorship, typically
they will plan events a year or more in advance. If they are interested in
sponsoring you, then getting to the right people early can ensure you get an
early commitment.

You may already know of local, national or even international businesses that
use Perl, but have never sponsored a Perl event before. Sometimes there might
be a good reason for this, but it may also be because they have never been
approached. Remember that in many cases, the person who makes sponsor decisions
is unlikely to be a developer or even a technical user. Explain who you are and
why you are approaching them. If you know they use Perl, say so. The person you
are talking to may not know how the underlying business works and not understand
why you are contacting them.

Sponsors can sign up within days of you initially asking them, while others may
wait right up until a few days before the conference. Be prepare to respond
quickly to any requests for further information. Have invoices prepared, so that
you can supply accounts departments with them promptly. Many large businesses
work on a 30-day lead time between receiving an invoice and paying it. The
earlier they start processing, the sooner you have funds to pay deposits with.

Once you have a rapport with your sponsors, keep up the relationship. Give them
regular feedback of how things are progressing with their sponsorship, remind
them of any key dates for sending you materials when deadlines are approaching,
giving them time to contact the appropriate department and people should they
need to.

## ACCOMMODATION

Everyone needs somewhere to stay. It's unlikely
you are willing to have several hundred geeks living with you for a week, so
you'll need to investigate what suitable accommodation is available.

As part of your research for your bid, you will hopefully either have somewhere
in mind for everyone, or know of a few places that would be suitable. If you've
been able to negotiate a deal with a primary hotel so much the better.

### Recommended Accommodation

A primary conference hotel and a less expensive dorm-style option should form
the basis of your recommendations. If there are others that are worth considering,
especially if the primary hotel cannot accommodate all your attendees, make sure
you include them. If the conference venue also includes accommodation in the
package make sure you mention this.

For a variety of reasons, not all attendees may want to stay in the same place.
Some attendees will find their own accommodation, regardless of any
recommendations you make, however try to highlight accommodation at a reasonable
cost for both professionals and self-funding individuals. The latter may make up
a notable part of your attendance and their living costs while at the conference
shouldn't be inhibiting.

Try and negotiate a deal with a hotel on price, both for a single person and for
two people (twin or double). Tell the hotel how many people you expect to be
staying there, as this can give you significant bargaining power. If possible
ask them to hold rooms for your attendees. This then ensures that any special
rate you have negotiated can be applied to those rooms for the duration of the
stay, as prices can differ over a weekend to weekday stay during the course of
the year. Include breakfast if possible.

If you are organising a deal with a hotel, it may be worth trying to include
wireless or wired internet into the deal. Most hotels have a broadband internet
connection, and while some do provide this for free, others can charge high
rates.  If the price is right, many attendees will be happy to pay a flat rate
for the week, but a high per day charge is likely to reduce the hotel's potential
revenue as attendees create their own WLAN between rooms. Many attendees will
want to have internet access as they will either have work commitments during
the conference, or simply wish to surf, hack, blog and write emails while in
their rooms, so ensure you choose accommodation that can provide this.

Your primary choice of accommodation should also provide somewhere for people to
hang out. Many hotels have large foyer and bar areas, where people can gather in
the evening to chat and hack the night away. Preferably there should be a bar
that opens late, but at the very least there should be access to refreshments so
attendees can congregate and socialise.

The hotel doesn't need to be right next to the venue, but if you recommend one
that's where most people will go. If the hotel isn't immediately adjacent to the
venue, you will need to work out all the directions and map details, so that
people can easily get from the hotel to the venue and back.

Dorms or dorm-style housing may also be available, if you are hosting the
conference at a university. However, most student accommodation, while cheap, is
also very basic and may not be able to provide suitable facilities for people to
"hang out" in the evening. Certainly take advantage if it is available, as
several attendees travelling on a low budget will thank you afterwards.

### Negotiating Deals

When negotiating a deal, start early. Give the hotel your conference dates and
some idea of numbers (they don't have to be accurate). With this you usually
have some bargaining power to get reasonable deals. Do not under any
circumstances guarantee room sales, and make this clear to hotels if necessary.
Try to include breakfast and internet connectivity in the room price, or at
least try and secure a package deal where possible.

If you are planning a conference during a hotel's quiet period, they are more
likely to provide reasonable discounts. Research the hotel's room costs by phone
and online before negotiating any deals, so you know whether you are getting a
reasonable discount. If the deal isn't suitable and you can hint that 100-200
room reservations could go to a competing hotel, they may reconsider. The
important piece here is research. The hotel is a business and won't offer any
deals unless you are able to provide them with reasons why they should.

Once you do negotiate a deal, be prepare to find that the hotel subsequently
offers a special rate, as time gets close to your event. If this happens alert
your attendees, as the special offer may not match the deal you have negotiated.
Check whether your deal and the special offer includes breakfast, an internet
rate or anything else. If there are differences, let attendees know. In some
case your attendees will likely tell you first anyway.

### Discount Codes

When negotiating deals, hotels often supply you with a discount code, that
attendees can make use of to get a discount when booking their room online,
over the phone or even in person.

Advertise the discount code to your attendees, without making the offer too
public. Using a mailing list mailout, or dedicated page on your website is
usually fine, but advertising on blogs and publicly distributed newsletters
is ill-advised, as non-conference attendees may take advantage of all your
negotiations, and your real attendees may lose out.

## ORGANISATIONAL MAILING LISTS

You should consider setting up at least two mailing lists.

The first should be purely for the team of organisers, and should be a
completely closed list, where you can discuss ideas privately away from both the
attending public and even your own Perl Monger user group. The latter is
important as you should be aware that any matters you discuss, particularly
around budget, should not be disclosed. It can create unnecessary headaches
trying to justify your actions, while still trying to talk to sponsors and
suppliers.

The second should be a publicly accessible list, that all the organisers are
subscribed to, which can be used as the first point of call for anyone wanting
to contact you. Often this is just a simple email address (e.g.
organisers@our-conference.org). It also needs to be an address that you can
promote as a contact address on your website and in any promotional material.

Having a second list helps to separate general inquires from ongoing
conference planning threads. It is very useful when people know one member of
the organisation team very well, and for whatever reason that person is not able
to respond.

You may also wish to have further mailing addresses, such as for submitting
talks, but this is entirely up to you.

If you set up a mailing list for public use, ensure that there is no automated
responder attached to it. Automated responses from an RT ticket system might be
acceptable to geeks, but corporate contacts will likely think something is
broken or worse consider your communication extremely unprofessional, and decide
not to continue discussing arrangements with you.

Respond to any public requests as promptly as possible, regardless of whether
the person is within the Perl community or not. They may forward emails to
others and a prompt, professional response will put you in a good light.

## THE CONFERENCE SURVEYS

The Conference Surveys website started in 2006, and are now a regular
feature of both The Perl Conference in Europe and The Perl Conference in North
America. If you wish to provide a survey at your event, you can contact
surveys@yapc-surveys.org and request for an instance to be set-up. There are two
forms of surveys available, the talk evaluations and the main conference survey.

The talk evaluations are purely for the benefit of the speakers. Results of
these evaluations are not made public, unless the speaker themselves publishes
them. They open after each talk takes place and are open until the closing date
of the main conference survey.

The main conference survey opens at the end of the conference and is typically
open for about 2 weeks. The survey results are collated and published on The
Conference Surveys website, which can then be used by future organisers to
help attract sponsors and generally improve the conference experience for
everyone.

It is worth reading previous surveys, as they can provide facts and figures that
can help encourage sponsors.

## CODE OF CONDUCT

In recent times it has been necessary for some conference
organisers to explictily state a code of conduct. While, you might expect
everyone who attends your event to behave with civility towards others, at
times this isn't always the case.

How you phrase a code of conduct is up to you, but below is the one that the
organisers of YAPC::NA 2012 have used:

    "While we don't all have the same experiences, skill levels, or upbringing, we
    all deserve basic civility and respect. In other words, attack an idea but never
    a person. Say whatever you want, but consider the context."

It's short and to the point, but conveys the right message. There is no need to
provide a list of words, topics or behaviour that are deemed unacceptable, as
that isn't what basic civility is about. It is about the care and consideration
of others.

If you wish to provide a longer code of conduct, the organisers of YAPC::NA 2011
issued one on their website, which is reproduced in Appendix B.
