# THE PREPARATION (the Last Six Months)

Once you've got yourself underway, many of the early tasks will either be in
full flow by now, or finished. It's now time to think about the promotional side
of things and start inviting people to be involved in your conference.

## TIMELINE 3 - THE FINAL PREPARATIONS

Throughout the next six months your be busy with a lot of task behind the
scenes. However the tasks below are your more public tasks, which all have
significant timed announcements.

  * Book Keynote Speakers
  * Launch Your Website
  * Call for Papers
  * Call for Registration
  * Deadline for Papers
  * Publish a Schedule
  * Auction Items Deadline
  * Close Registration
  * Final Preparations

## PLANNING MEETINGS

By now the team should be fairly familiar with the tasks ahead of them. You only
have six months left and it will pass very quickly. From this point forward it
is important to continue with regular face to face planning meetings. These
should increase in frequency as you get closer to the event.

### Update You Project Plan

The tasks you outlined for completion in the last six months before your event,
should now all have start and end dates. There will likely be some additional
tasks and dates that you need to add based on previous tasks.

## YOUR BUDGET

From this point onwards your budget needs to be tightly
controlled. You will need to keep a handle on what costs are mounting up (paid
and unpaid) and what income you have coming in, as well as your targets to
balance the books. If you have a group member who is good with figures or has
accounting or bookkeeping skills, use them to help create a budget you can work
with.

### Income

#### Sponsorship

This is a tricky part of organising a conference, and is likely to be your
biggest source of income. Hopefully your contacts with sponsors from the
previous six months are starting bear fruit. Even if you have enough sponsorship
at this point, don't stop trying to contact potential sponsors.

Promote your sponsorship pack and encourage community members to either talk to
marketing staff within their own companies, or provide you with contacts. The
sooner your budget becomes positive the sooner you can plan all the extras you
thought of in your bid.

#### Registration Fees

Your next biggest source of income is the registration fee. Ideally you want
this fee to cover the per-person costs as much as possible, so the attendee is
paying their way for the attendee specific expenses. One way to decide a fee is
to add up your costs on a per-attendee basis. You'll need to bear in mind any
exemptions (see below) in your calculations.

Up to and including the 2005 conference, both YAPC::NA ($85) and YAPC::Europe
(E<euro>99/E<pound>65) had managed to keep registration fees low. In 2006
Chicago introduced an early bird scheme ($85/$100), while Birmingham offered a
two tiered scheme (E<pound>100/E<pound>75). The early bird incentive can
encourage a number of self-funding individuals to register early and provide
early funds, while late deciders then have to pay the higher rate. With the two
tier scheme, the standard rate was aimed at those individuals who were being
paid to attend by their companies, and the individual rate for those who were
self funded. By not having an early bird incentive, this meant registration was
much more consistent throughout the registration period.

The goal is to try to keep the price as low as possible, as you don't want the
registration fee to be a barrier to someone attending, particularly if an
attendee is paying for themselves, which many do. The low fee also opens the
door to students and other non-corporate supported attendees, who want to get a
taste of what Perl is all about. As a further alternative, you may want to
introduce a Student Rate, which allows students to register for a very low fee
on the understanding that they must provide proof of their student status when
they sign-in at the registration desk. This is most useful for encouraging
student attendance locally and nationally, although you may also get some
international students too.

Many companies regularly send attendees to conferences and for most the
registration fee is a small part of their overall costs of sending delegates to
an event, when they factor in travel and accommodation costs. As such, many
companies would still send attendees even if the price doubled. By using this
to help offset the cost for self-funding individuals and students, you are more
likely to have quite a diverse mix of attendees. For YAPC::Europe 2009, a
Corporate Rate of E<euro>2000 was introduced, which aside from covering
conference attendance, also covered attendance to a class or tutorial taking
place before or after the main conference days.

The Corporate Rate was introduced following suggestions from some previous
attendees, who had said convincing their boss that it was a valuable and
professional conference to attend was difficult due to the low price of the
Registration Fee. Having a rate that matched similar corporate events, made it
appear more appropriate to their managers. Strange, but true!

### Exemptions

Typically presenters and keynote speakers are given free entry, since that's all
you really have to offer. However, you need to decide what your cut-off point is,
as talks can range from a 5-minute lightning talk to a full day seminar. One
system commonly used is:

  * Keynotes: free
  * Talks 20 minutes or more: free
  * Talks less than 20 minutes, including lightning talks: full registration

You may also want to grant free entry to some of your volunteers. Note that you
are incurring cost for all of these people for things like venue hire, food,
t-shirt, etc. so don't grant free admission to everyone. Save it as a reward for
volunteers who helped consistently and productively throughout the planning
process.

If anyone from the above groups wishes to pay the full Registration Fee to help
with the running costs, then by all means allow them to do so, as there may be
other ways of thanking them. It has not been unheard of for a keynote speaker
to have a bowl of their favourite sweets waiting for them at the lectern.

### Expenditure

#### Insurance

Insurance is something that easily gets forgotten about, until organisers talk
to previous organisers. Have you thought about what would happen if something
goes disastrously wrong? What if a week before your conference, your chosen
venue becomes unavailable (fire, flooding, health and safety or even worse a
previously unknown double booking)? You need insurance to ensure that you and
your team are not held personally liable or become out of pocket if anything
happens, either before or during the conference that forces you to move or
cancel the event. Most event insurance is pretty standard, and most venues will
have insurance which cover damage to the building. But your insurance liability
is definitely something you need to investigate.

In some cases, TPF may be able to help cover costs if you encounter some
difficulties, but do not rely on this help. Wherever possible, ensure adequate
insurance cover is provided. Specific areas of insurance coverage include:

  * Buildings Insurance (usually the venue has this, but double check)
  * Event Insurance (you'll need to arrange this)
  * Exhibitors Insurance (exhibitors usually have this)

Regarding the latter, if you are allowing sponsors or other exhibitors to be
onsite, with a manned or unmanned stand, then they will need to be covered by
their own event insurance. In many cases your insurance for the event will not
cover your exhibitors, so ensure they have a policy. Many large companies, who
are regular exhibitors, will likely have a standard company policy.

What are you liable for? In most cases it will simply be the event itself.
However, clarify with the venue exactly what they expect of you, and note
anything that potentially you may be liable for in the event of breakage or
cancellation.

### Profits

It may seem odd to discuss profits, but many conference have been successful
enough to have a surplus profit at the end of the event. With increased sponsor
interest, and low production costs, you may find you have an unexpected source
of revenue, either for other events or supported projects.

Profits from previous Perl Conferences have either gone to one of The Perl
Foundation development funds, to future event organisers, the local host group
for them to fund local activities (such as hiring rooms or buying a projector
for local technical meetings), The Enterprise Perl Organisation's project funds,
or to other community funds and projects.

Passing funds to the organising team for the following year, provides them with
a "float" to be used to book a venue and arrange deposits for any long lead time
items.

### Tax Exemption

Tax is a tricky area both financially and legally. If you are setting yourselves
up as a Charity or Non-Profit organisation, then you may be able to claim tax
exemption, depending on the qualifications of the national Tax Office. However,
this is not always easy and you are best advised to seek legal advice to clarify
whether this is possible.

If you are organising a Perl event in the United States of America, then The Perl
Foundation can help to some degree as they are a tax exempt organisation,
providing you plan to use their services to benefit from this. Contact them for
details.

## RECRUITING VOLUNTEERS

In the six months before your event you will have many small tasks
that can be completed by someone outside of your core team. Recruit a local crew
who are willing help with fetching and carrying, and will act as volunteers and
timekeepers during the event too.

These people will not necessarily have a lot of free time before the conference,
but they can help with some research, pick-up and drop-off items or generally
look after things that don't necessarily have an urgent deadline, but that you
still need to get done.

Some of the best volunteers during the event are often those who have no
interest in the subject, and may not even have any technology background. Some
education establishments (regardless of whether one is your venue) have student
teams to acts as timekeepers and runners. You may need to pay them, but this can
often be worthwhile.

You may also want to ask the community whether anyone would like to help out.
Offer free entrance (or reduced entrance if your budget is tight) for anyone
willing to help. You will likely find several people offering to help out for
half a day, a full day and maybe even the for the full conference.

## INVITE SPEAKERS

### Invite Keynote Speakers

Approach a few keynote speakers who you would like to invite.
Based on your budget, let them know whether you would be able to fund all or
part of their travel and accommodation expenses. If they or their company is
able to fund them, this will give you more flexibility for funding for the other
speakers you have invited.

If the speaker has given a keynote before, you may want to ask prior organisers
about what terms they had. It might enable you to prepare your introductory
letter if you've never had contact with the speaker before.

Always ask keynote speakers to confirm their attendance as soon as possible.
Advertising a high profile speaker's attendance is good promotion for your
event. They can encourage sponsors, speakers and attendees alike to become
involved in your event.

### Invite Notable Speakers

Although some notable speakers may need more lead time, you should invite some
of the speakers you would like to attend your conference at least 6 months
before your conference. These speakers don't necessarily have to be your keynote
speakers, but can include speakers you think would be a valuable addition to
your schedule.

Knowing who to invite and whether you can afford them largely depends on your
budget. Ask potential speakers for a rough guide to their travel expenses and
see what difference it makes to your budget. In some case speakers may be
willing to offset their expenses by running training courses or getting support
from their company.

Some speakers are willing to provide training courses to local companies before
or after the conference, to help cover their expenses. While this is something
you can look into, do not let it distract you from other tasks. If possible ask
local Perl and Linux user groups whether their company would be interested in
some dedicated training.

Once you can make definite plans to invite a speaker, always ask them to confirm
their attendance, as it worth advertising to sponsors and potential attendees.

## LAUNCH YOUR WEBSITE

If you haven't already done so, you will need to launch your
website at least six months before your conference. The website will be your
primary method of promoting the conference to sponsors, speakers, attendees and,
perhaps most importantly of all, to companies that will be sending their
employees to your event. If the website looks a mess, it makes the employee's
job much much harder to convince their boss why they should attend.

ACT now has lots of functionality to make managing the content of the website
much easier, but you still need someone to design templates and logos that will
impress visitors to the site. It doesn't have to be a state of the art site, but
it does need to look professional.

When you launch the website include any news, newletters and sponsorship details
that you may have already published. Your website will be your primary
repository for online documentation about your event, so use it to promote to
your event.

### Maps & Directions

One task that often gets forgotten, and that your volunteers can help with, is
to collect or take photos of the area, not just the venue and hotels, but the
transport routes from the airport, train stations and bus stations to get around
your city/town, so that your attendees know what to look for when they arrive,
and how to find their way when they first arrive.

Write a guide of how to get from the airport (or transportation hub) to the main
hotels, from the main hotels to the venue and, if applicable, from the venue to
the social meetups (including the Conference Dinner if there is one). Use the
photos to highlight landmarks or signs that travellers need to be watchful for.
Travel the routes yourself and make notes on which exit you take and any left or
right turn you make out of a building. Remember that small details count, as
your attendees may well take a wrong turn because you haven't made it clear
where they need to go.

Put the guide up on your website and reference it in newsletters. Attendees will
often print the pages in advance, so try to create a minimal print version or
PDF, if you can.

Maps are also useful. If you can, create an online reference map (e.g. by using
Google Maps or Open Street Map) with pin-points to identify key places, such as
the venue, hotels and transport points. In addition, you can include places to
eat, drink and sightsee, as your attendees will appreciate these too. If you can
find links to campus maps (if your venue is an educational establishment) or
venue maps that identify the building in which you are hosting the event,
include these too as additional online links.

Provide links to any online transport maps and city maps, hosted by official
train and bus companies or local government websites. This provides attendees
with further resources for finding their way around the city before they get
there.

## PROMOTION

Six months before the event, possibly sooner, you need to start
planning how you are going to promote the event. Newsletters and announcements
all need to appear on your website, but you need to decide where else you should
post these and any other updates.

Some specific places online that you can approach include:

  * YAPC/YEF conference websites
  * post as a Perl Blogs user
  * post on a personal blog associated with the Iron Man Perl Planet
  * Perl Monks news postings
  * YAPC/YEF conference mailing lists
  * PM Group and local Perl group mailing lists
  * Local and national Linux/Open Source group mailing lists
  * National IT/Open Source printed media

In addition, there are now a plethora of social media and micro-blogging
networks available for you to get the word out. Signup to at least the
following, and if appropriate create a special conference account:

  * Facebook
  * LinkedIn
  * Twitter
  * Instagram
  * Flickr

On Facebook there is already a Perl Mongers user group which currently
promotes various Perl events, covering international and national conferences,
workshops and large technical events.

However, first you need to think about what you need to say. Promotion is both a
chance to tell people the event exists and a means to provide details to the
potential attendees, speakers and sponsors about how you are progressing with
the organisation. However, the various outlets above don't necessarily need a
big newsletter or the full announcements. Sometimes, a brief one line post with
a link to the content on your website is enough.

## ANNOUNCEMENTS

Throughout your preparations, you will need to plan when to
make announcements. There are some key milestones that need to be announced
promptly, but it's also important to remember to post newsletters and updates to
the community early and frequently, so they know that the conference is still
happening, and can plan their travel, accommodation, etc. as soon as possible.

Announcements can be split into two types; Milestones and Newsletters. For the
former you must prepare an official announcement that will be publicised on your
website, to the community and beyond, while the latter is more typically
promoted on your website and to selected community sites.

### Milestones

These we will cover in more depth later, but ensure you schedule release dates
for these on your project plan

  * Call for Papers
  * Call for Registration
  * Deadline for Abstracts
  * Deadline for Papers
  * Publishing The Draft Schedule
  * Close of Registration

### Newsletters

You should plan to release regular newsletters or updates about various aspects
of the conference. Your attendees will want to be kept updated about all sorts
of things that you wouldn't necessarily feature in a milestone announcement.
This might include news about what is happening behind the scenes, new sponsors,
accommodation, special promotions, events around the conference, and many other
items that help to generate excitement and interest about the conference.

Post newsletters regularly. Between 2-6 months before the conference, try to
post newsletters at least once a month. With less than 2 months before the
event, you should be trying to post something every week if you can. As you get
closer to the conference, you'll suddenly find there are lots of things to talk
about. If you're lost for anything to say, tell people about updates to the
wiki, BOFs that are being planned, and any special plans you might be working on
for the event.

Newsletters are an invaluable way to publicise your event. Posted on your
website and on community related websites, it attracts a search engine ranking
that helps to raise awareness of your event. Include links to various pages on
your website and wiki, so that others can link to specific areas of interest in
your newsletters. Post links to the newsletters on various social networks, such
as Facebook and Twitter, and any other technical related networks, websites and
forums that you think appropriate. Get included on technical event calendars,
such as the Perl Community Google Calendar, Facebook Events, LinkedIn events and
any other similar technical community calendars that you think appropriate.

Don't be afraid to promote your event. With one caveat. Don't over promote
yourself to the same people with the same post. In particular this refers to
posting about your event to mailing lists, where some may be signed up to all
the same mailing lists you are posting to. It can generate a backlash if anyone
feels like they are being spammed. As such keep posts to mailing lists brief if
they are not specifically related to your event. For conference events there are
mailing lists that people can sign up to where many aspects of the conference
can be discussed. On these mailing lists it is perfectly acceptable to post your
newsletter in full.

For reference, the currently used Perl Conference mailing lists are:

  * yapc@perl.org - primarily for YAPC::NA
  * conferences@yapceurope.org - for YAPC::Europe

Search for past press releases from previous conference organisers to get an
idea of the kind of things you can include. Obviously there will be much more
general information to begin with, and very specific items closer to the actual
event.

Also give advance notice of approaching deadlines about a week before their
cut-off, and often the day before as well. It never hurts to remind people of
deadlines, particular via the mailing lists and the micro-blogging networks.

Keep the information flow going. NEVER assume that just because you're really
busy organising the event, everyone else will know that. If you don't keep
regular communication going, people will start to wonder whether something has
gone wrong. Even if you can only announce that you can't announce anything yet,
that will be enough to let everyone know that you are still doing something :)

Try to plan your announcements in advance. Set some annoucement dates in your
project plan, alongside your key dates, for when you want to post an
announcement or newsletter, then give yourself time to prepare and proof read
it. Make sure any dates, times or email addresses you mention are correct.

## CALL FOR PAPERS

The Call for Papers should be announced 4-6 months before the
conference. This gives speakers time to decide what talks they will submit. Give
them at least a month to respond, preferably longer. If you have decided on a
conference theme, announce that in the Call for Papers, as often speakers will
tailor their talks specifically with your chosen theme in mind.

Do you have any specific talks or topics you'd like to have? If so list them in
the Call for Papers. Also do not be afraid to approach some well known speakers
and ask whether they would give a presentation on the subject you want. Some may
be reluctant, but others may be glad to be given a specific subject to work on.

There may be several topics that you can already assume you will get submissions
for (e.g. Perl6 and Moose), but you will likely get submissions for related
topics that you didn't expect. Take advantage of this and schedule common topics
into a single track, even if they only cover single morning or afternoon on one
day.

### Submission Deadlines

Call for Papers is probably misnamed these days, as it is really a Call for
Abstracts, as the submissions you will receive are the abstracts of talks. If
you are planning a proceedings booklet, in which you wish to include copies of
the talks, then advertise this in the Call for Papers, with a separate deadline.

Always state a timetable in the Call for Papers including:

  * deadline for talk abstract submissions
  * when talk acceptance and decline emails are being sent
  * deadline for speaker acceptance
  * official announcement of schedule (first draft)
  * deadline for papers (if required for proceedings booklet)

The deadline for talk abstracts is your soft deadline, and should be at least
2-3 months before your conference, to give you time to review talks, accept
talks, speakers to accept and publish a schedule. The schedule needs to be
online as early as possible to give attendees an idea who and what will be at
your event.

Plan for a soft and hard deadline (usually one week apart), in case anything
goes wrong. The hard deadline is when you plan to begin assessing all the talks.
If you need to change the soft deadline as you approach the date, ensure you
announce a revised timetable. If you've allowed for a hard deadline, this should
not affect other dates. See Planning Your Schedule (below) for what to do once
you have your abstracts in.

Giving yourself a soft deadline means anyone submitting their talk "late", can
still have a chance to be included. Many speakers will submit their talks at the
last minute, and delays or network failures may mean you have some late
entrants.

### Talk Submissions

Ensure you include all the details of how speakers should submit their talks.
Preferably have an online form which includes all the all the questions and
information you need from the speakers. These should include:

  * Title
  * Abstract
  * Reference Material
  * Keywords

These enable you to quickly spot common topics and talks.

#### Audience

Beginner, Intermediate, Expert, All.

#### Duration

Limit selection if you have set lengths.

#### Special Requirements

While you'll be providing a room, a projector and an audience, the speaker may
need additional resources to help them present, such as an internet connection,
a flip chart or something else.

These should provide you with enough background for each talk, to be able to see
whether they relate to other talks or conflict with other talks. If two talks
look likely to be exactly the same, you may wish to contact the speakers and see
whether they wish to make a joint submission, or rework their talks for beginner
and advance audiences, so they can flow from one to the other.

## CALL FOR REGISTRATION

Many attendees will attend the conference regardless of
who will be speaking. Many speakers and attendees will simply be attending to
meet with collaborators on various projects. Others may need convincing.

Conference Registration should open at least 2-4 months before the start of the
conference. If you're in a position to open earlier then you should do so, as
some attendees may plan their trip well in advance.

There are two other benefits to opening registration early. The first is
monetary as early registrations allow you to have additional funding on hand to
balance your budget. Secondly, it gives you an early estimate of the numbers you
can expect. While attendance numbers won't increase linearly over time, you may
get a rough idea of whether your anticipated capacity is going to be met.

You should note that Conference registration is not the same as website
registration. Within ACT (and other systems) many people will have high hopes of
attending, and register their intentions to attend, but until they actually pay
the Registration Fee you won't know whether they will attend or not. Technically
you still won't know, but at least you have the money!

Detail how people can register and pay for their conference tickets. Outline
your pricing structure clearly. How many ticket prices you have depends largely
on what you are planning to provide and the types of people you are hoping to
attract to the event. As an absolute you should have a Standard Rate, but there
may be others you want to include:

### Corporate Rate

Often a cheap way to sponsor the event, offering attendance to the conference,
at least one paid class and possibly other opportunities. Attendees paying the
corporate rate might require a printed and signed invoice. You might also
consider giving these attendees extra goodies like an extra sponsorship
t-shirt or print the company names in the proceedings and the name badges.

### Standard Rate

The regular price for attendees

### Early Bird Rate

Consider introducing a discounted rate for early registrations.

Early registrations are good way of generating early income and can help you
to initially finance the conference. They may help to give you an estimate on
your potential attendance figures.

### Student Rate

There are a small number of attendees currently studying for degrees, who are on
a limited budget. These are our potential stars of the future, so if you can
offer a reduced price, you may encourage them to attend. A reduced rate may also
apply to local attendees if the average income in the host country is well
below regional average.

### Friend Of Perl Rate

This is where the ticket price covers that of the attendee and another that
might not otherwise be able to attend without finacial help. Typically this is
to enable students and our rising stars to attend the conference.

As an alternative you may wish to promote a 'Send A Newbie' programme, which
accepts donations to cover flights and accommodations for those who would not be
able to attend without financial help. The European 'Send A Newbie' programme was
specifically setup to provide financial assistance to those who have never
attended a Perl conference before.

Both The Perl Foundation and The Enterprise Perl Organisation run 'Send A Newbie'
programmes, so reach out to them too, to see how you can help to promote these
as well.

It is worth remembering that in many cases the conference ticket price is the
cheapest item in attendance expenses. Travel and accommodation will be
considerably higher, so offering cheaper rates does not always make a big
difference for many of your attendees.

## THE CONFERENCE SCHEDULE

### Choosing Talks

After the hard deadline for abstracts, you should allow
your team at least a week to decide which talks to accept. Arrange a meeting
with your team once everyone has had a chance to read through the abstracts.
You'll then be able to make some quick choices as to what to accept and reject,
hopefully making it a little easier to whittle down your selection.

The abstracts will often be all you have to judge talks on. For new speakers you
may also want to do some research to see whether they are known, or have already
contributed to the community.

Your team needs to decide which talks you are going to accept. How you decide
which to accept is entirely up to you. Some teams print out all the talk
abstracts, without listing the speaker, and rank the talks in order of interest,
while others give priority to known good speakers or see whether commonly themed
talks would fit together. If there are specific themes you want to include, try
matching common talks together and pick the best of the bunch. You will likely
have multiple submissions from some speakers and hopefully you will be able to
have some talks in reserve should you need them.

Once you think you have all your talks, put them into a rough schedule spreading
them across rooms and days to see how they fit. This is important, as you may
have multiple talks from the same speakers, while others may not be attending
for the whole conference, and you will need to spot potential clashes and avoid
them.

For any clashes that cannot be resolved by moving talks, can they be resolved by
removing a talk? If so then this may be worth marking as a reserve talk.
Hopefully you'll be over-subscribed with talks, so you'll have plenty of choices
to make.

When aligning your schedule, there are two points worth bearing in mind.
Firstly, popular speakers and topics are likely to attract a large audience, so
ensure such talks are in a room that can accommodate them. Secondly, make time
for first-time or less well-known speakers, as they deserve a chance to make an
impression on the attendees (hopefully it's a good impression).

When planning your schedule, consider how many rooms you will need and what
timeslots will be available. It is traditional to have 20 minute and 40 minute
talks, so you'll need to work out whether you'll have talks of the same length
at the same time, or will mix them. Also plan to have suitable gaps between
talks (about 10 minutes is best) to allow people to pack-up, move between the
furthest rooms and prepare themselves for the next talk. If you make it too
short, either people will be leaving before the end of talks, walking in on
talks after they've begun or miss talks because it's too late to get to the next
one.

Plan your start, break, lunch and end times carefully. Breaks should be at least
20-30 minutes, giving time to get a tea or coffee and find the toilet. Lunch
should between 60-120 minues (60-90 minutes if you are providing lunch). Do not
start your conference before 9am. It's rare that attendees even start work
before that, so don't expect them to be in full attendance each morning at 8am
or earlier! Start each day with announcements, and allow 10 minutes for any
important information such as schedule changes. Your finish time each day will
likely depend on when your venue closes. Some are accommodating and will let you
stay late, allowing time for BOFs at the venue, while others will charge
overtime if you stay over your allotted hours. Don't try to cram too much into
your schedule. If you don't have the time or the rooms, having 5 minutes between
talks and starting at 8am is not a good solution.

### Strategic Schedule Choices

Consider the following fixed points for your schedule:

#### Keynote immediately after registration on the first day

Having the full assembly at the start has the following important benefits:

  * Your other rooms can be used as storage for items that are delivered
    before the conference starts but will be needed only later (Goodies,
    seating area, sponsor material to replace the registration area, food for
    the first break, etc.).
  * Only one room needs to be completely ready in the morning of the first day
  * Organisational announcements are seen by everyone.
  * Delays due to the setup are easily centralized. No speaker can disrupt
    the schedule by starting early. Everybody has to wait.

#### Keynote and Lightning Talks at the end of the conference

Having a central talk at the end mirrors the benefits of the starting day.
You can clean up and close the other rooms early. You get convenient storage
for items that need to be out of the way. No attendees are around while you
organize the retrieval and dismantling of equipment (catering, projector,
sponsor booths, banners/guides, etc.)

### Accepting Talks

Once you have your draft schedule, you'll need to contact all the speakers who
have submitted talks you have accepted. Contact speakers for each accepted talk,
holding back on any talk that you haven't accepted right now. If you're asking a
speaker to present multiple talks, ensure they are happy with this and provide
the option to space talks out over the whole conference. Presenting talks is
very tiring, and long talks or tutorials take a lot of preparation.

Allow at least a week to hear back from speakers. In that time, if you get a
response from anyone saying they can no longer attend, swap in talks that
you've put on hold. After a week, you should look to finalise your draft
schedule. However, you may not have received a response for every talk you've
accepted. There can be several reasons for this, so rather than discard them,
leave blanks in your published schedule and fill them in once you do hear back.
Don't publish speaker names or talk titles in your schedule when the speaker
hasn't confirmed, as you may find they have submitted talks and then forgotten
about the conference and planned something else instead. Yes that happens!

Before publishing your schedule contact speakers for talks you haven't accepted,
and ask whether they would consider holding the talk in reserve. If there really
is a talk that you need to reject outright do so, but it's better to have
something than nothing as a backup.

### Publish A Draft Schedule

Now you should publish the first public draft schedule. It will not be the last,
so don't fret that it isn't quite perfect. Once published, you will get requests
to switch timeslots, rooms and days, and will even get told that a speaker will
be unable to present. It happens. If you can accommodate any speaker change
requests, feel free to do so, but do not cause yourself too many headaches by
juggling everything all at once.

If you are still awaiting speaker responses after a week of announcing the
schedule, contact them again with a deadline. After that you'll have to look
towards some of your reserve talks and speakers to fill any remaining holes in
the schedule.

The schedule will change several times before the conference and undoubtedly
everyday during the conference too. It's a pain, but remember not to panic, as
you will probably have several experienced speakers at your event, some of whom
will have old talks to hand that can fill a gap. You may even have reserve
speakers to call on, if they are attending the conference.

The sooner you publish a draft schedule of talks, the sooner attendees who have
yet to decide can see whether the scheduled talks will appeal to them, and
whether they may know or would like to meet any of the speakers. Plan to publish
your first draft at least 2 months before the start of the conference. The
sooner you can publish a schedule the better, as some managers will not give
clearance to attend a conference until they see a schedule.

### Deadline for Papers

If you are planning to publish talks in conference proceeedings, you will need
to make speakers aware of this when you accept their talks. Not all will submit
traditional technical papers, so you may want to accept presentation slides too.
If you need them in a particular format, make sure you let speakers know.

The deadline for receiving papers or slides should be at minimum of a few days
before you go to press, if you are having conference proceedings as a printed
booklet. If you are only planning a CD version (or similar) this can be done later,
but you still need to give yourself time to prepare the material and get it printed
and burnt. You shouldn't be rushing around preparing conference proceedings a
few days before the conference.

## THE CONFERENCE PACK

A conference pack for attendees at a large conference
typically consists of the proceedings, a writing implement, a writing pad,
t-shirt, badge and a bag. Smaller conferences may provide far less. All these
and more are up for sponsorship. Many sponsors are more than happy to provide
pens, pads and other goodies to put in your conference pack. However, remember
to accurately inform the sponsors of how many attendees (plus a margin for late
entry) you expect and the date by which they need to send you their swag.

A deadline for items, particularly from sponsors, needs to be a suitable time
before the conference to give you and your team time to pack everything into the
bags. A good deadline would be 1-2 weeks before the start of the conference.

### Conference Proceedings

If you are planning on providing a Conference Proceedings booklet, whether
electronic or printed, you'll need something to fill it. Typically the booklet
should include a schedule (accurate at the time of going to press), information
regarding the conference venue (room location maps, wifi connection details,
contact numbers), some local information (emergency numbers, taxis, transport
information) together with details of talks.

This last item is often of the most interest to attendees as it helps them to
decide which talks to attend while at the conference. Some don't plan ahead, and
some don't have laptops (or no internet connection) to be able to read abstracts
online. At the very least try to include the talk abstracts in the booklet, but
where possible see if speakers can provide proper papers for their talks. Some
will send you academic style papers, while others will simply make copies of
their slides. All should be acceptable.

However, do speakers know you want actual papers to be submitted, and not just
the talk abstracts? In your initial Call for Papers state whether you plan to
include academic papers or slides, and set a deadline for them. When you notify
speakers that you have accepted their talk, remind them that you would like them
to submit an official paper. You may wish to ask speakers for a short biography
to include in the proceedings, regardless of whether they submit papers.

At least a week before the deadline, contact those speakers who haven't
submitted a paper and remind them. It's unlikely you will get inundated with
papers, but you will hopefully get enough to make it worthwhile.

Make sure you include sponsor information in any conference proceedings. Ask
sponsors for logos, a short introduction and any web links that they wish to
promote themselves. If you have space you may want to offer half-page or
full-page advertising space to sponsors too.

### Maps

Hard copy maps are extremely valuable to attendees. Maps of the venue, your city
and transport networks are often well used as attendees navigate their way
around. If possible get paper copies of any maps you can obtain from the venue
or local tourist information.

Many bus and train stations will have maps and it may be worthwhile contacting
them to see if they can supply you with a few hundred.

### Schedule

Include a printed copy of the event schedule in the conference pack or have
copies available at the registration desk. Since the schedule may change you
may wish to only include the schedule for the first day, with the schedules for
subsequent days made available at the conference reception desk, at the
beginning of each morning.

### Badges

Conference badges with the attendees name and/or nick are a great way of
bringing people together. The badge could optionally include the attendees
country, Perl Monger group affiliation and company (particularly useful for
sponsors and anyone paying business tarif). Be wary of providing too much
personal information, such as email addresses, as some attendees may not wish
to have their personal details so publicly visible.

Instead of providing personal details on the badge, it may be more appropriate
to print a QR-code image, which provides a link to the attendees online profile.
For example you could link to the attendee's ACT profile, which the attendee
themselves can control what they wish to make public.

## FINAL DEADLINES

### Auction Items Deadline

The auction (if you are holding one) comprises items donated by
attendees and sponsors. Many publishers will be willing to provide books and
other sponsors may wish to donate items. It is important that you know about
these early. You should arrange to have these delivered to the organisers well
in advance of the auction. If you have the deadline the day before the
conference or the auction, then be prepared for some items to arrive days or
weeks later.

You should aim for a deadline of about one week before the beginning of the
conference.

### Close of Registration

Close the online registration before the conference. If you are dealing with
credit card payments, you may be able to close a few days before, but bank
transfers should close at least 1 week before the beginning of the conference.
You will need to prepare an attendee list, to aid you in pre-registration, so
give yourself 3-4 days to prepare this.

Do you have a limit for the number of people who can attend your conference? If
so, then you will need to watch attendance figures carefully, and make sure you
warn people before you reach your limit.

You will need to have a strict deadline for accepting bank transfers, if you are
allowing payment in that way, as it can take over a week to transfer currencies
between banks in different countries.

If you haven't reached capacity, then after closing online registrations you may
be able to allow registration "on the door". Be careful about advertising this
as you may have too many people walk up and want to pay, with some having
travelled many miles to get there. If you only have a limit number of places
they are going to be disappointed. As such, it is better to officially announce
your capacity slightly less than the real capacity.

Some venues may have to follow strict laws regarding their capacity, and
exceeding it can generate fines that you will have to pay.

### Final Preparations

There will be many and you will need to be on top of everything else to ensure
the last minute tasks all get done. Ensure you have volunteers ready to help.

One important final preparation that you must not forgetten, is signage. Both
signposts to your venue, directing people towards the venue from car parks or
crossings, and signs around the venue building. Signs to rooms and toilets
should be a minimum. Wherever possible provide maps of the venue as part of the
conference pack.

See if the venue will allow you to prepare the venue for your attendees the day
before. Most will be accommodating, and at the very least will allow you to
prepare signs, tables and rooms the evening before. This is where volunteers
can be most helpful, as many hands will make light work of all your remaining
tasks.

## CONFERENCE EVENTS

The following are all activities that can take place during
the conference. Some are nice to have, so don't feel pressured to provide all of
them.

### Day Trips & Partner Programmes

If feasible, see if you can organise a partner programme during the event. Many
attendees bring partners, family or friends along with them, and while the
conference may well be of interest to the attendee, their entourage may not be
so thrilled.

At the very least, suggest places to visit. Museums and places of interest
should already be featured in local guides. Ask your volunteers if they are
willing to act as tour guides for a small group. Failing that, is there a
professional tour guide company that would be willing to do a special rate for
you? In the last two cases you will need to get an estimate for how many will be
taking advantage of the partner programme, and may even need to charge a fee to
cover costs.

Some attendees will plan to arrive several days early or leave a few days after
the conference to take in some sightseeing. Try to arrange a day trip somewhere
if you can, although this usually works best after the event, as more people
have gotten to know each other. If you have other commitments, at least see if
you can arrange to meet up in the evening for a meal or on pub outing. These can
give early arrivals a chance to socialise somewhere you know is good (remember
that many attendees may not have been to your city before), as well as for late
leavers to say a final farewell.

### Early Arrivals Dinner

Depending upon how you are planning to do your pre-registration, you may want to
try to arrange for everyone arriving early to meet for food. Many attendees will
be arriving the day before the conference, and would rather be guided towards
somewhere for food and drink, than have to find it for themselves and
potentially make a bad judgement.

If you are just meeting in a bar or pub, make sure you can suggest good eating
venues nearby (include options for those on a low budget or with special
dietary requirements).

The Early Arrivals Dinner is always at the attendees own expense, and should not
be part of your conference budget. However, do recommend somewhere for this to
take place and possibly book it if you can. When deciding on a place to
recommend, always talk to the manager for a large conference. Explain that you
are expecting 100+ attendees to turn up on the night. Do they have staff to
cope, can they make that many food orders, will there be enough beer? It is not
unusual for the meetup venue to not believe you, and find that 150 people
suddenly turn up, wanting beer and food, with 1 or 2 staff behind the bar, not
enough food and not enough beer. And yes it has been known for attendees to
drink a pub dry!

Emphasise that the establishment is likely to take several thousand through
their tills, and it really is worth their while getting extra staff, food and
beer in.

### Conference Dinner

The conference dinner is always a nice to have, but you should either get
sponsorship for it, or only include it once you have covered all your basic
costs. Like the venue, it can be a large cost to your budget. If you are hosting
the conference at a university, you may find they are able to provide facilities
for large numbers for either a sit-down meal or buffet. Other large venues
(pubs, bars and hotels) with function rooms may also be available with catering.
Toronto even managed to secure a buffet on a paddle steamer around Toronto
Harbour for YAPC::NA 2005.

Ensure you consider dietary preferences. As mentioned in Chapter 1 (see
'Catering - Dietary Requirements'), you'll have some attendees who are
vegetarians or vegans, possibly some with food allergies and maybe others who
require kosher or halal food. Although you may not be able to cater for all
preferences, at least trying to provide some alternative options will help to
include rather than alienate many attendees.

Regardless of the venue, some people won't come to the dinner and some will
leave after the dinner. Most do attend the dinner, but not all. Caterers will
want definite numbers, so it may be wise to allow for 90% of your anticipated
number. Also bear in mind that some attendees will be travelling with partners
and possibly family, and may want to bring them along. If you are planning to
have an additional charge for guests, please ensure that attendees know this in
advance. For Birmingham, our funds increased dramatically in the last few weeks,
which meant we could invite all the guests free of charge.

In the early years, both European and North American Perl conferences have held
a "Speakers Dinners". While this is certainly a nice thank you to the speakers,
you also need to be careful not to segregate and alienate the attendees from the
speakers. In the past it has meant regular attendees were deserted for a night
and left to fend for themselves. If you weren't part of the "in-crowd",
particularly if it was your first time at a large conference, it didn't make for
a good experience.

If you wish to hold a Speaker's Dinner, try and arrange something outside of the
conference timetable wherever possible. Both Chicago and Houston have held a
Speakers' Party after the last day of the conference, as many speakers were
international and had plans to fly home over the following days, while most of
the regular attendees were already making their way home. Any attendees
remaining longer by now had made new friends and at least knew the area well
enough to not feel ignored.

If time and the dinner venue permits, an entertainment program, such as the
Geek-Quiz held in Lisbon, can be a great idea to encourage attendees to break
the ice and get to know each other, as well as providing more of an incentive
for people to remain at the venue socialising.

### Other Evenings

Suggest other events, though not necessarily organised, for other nights of the
conference. This may only require you to suggest a local pub or bar that is
capable of holding most of your attendees. Some will want to hack away wherever
the accommodations are, others will want to have food and drink elsewhere and
get to know other attendees better. However, if you have a home base somewhere,
most people will be reassured that they can at least find someone associated
with the conference. This can be very important for first time attendees as many
will not know anyone else. Be inclusive wherever possible.

### Conference Auction

The auction are somewhat of a tradition with some Perl conferences, and while
they were initially used a means to raise funds for the organisers to cover
outstanding expenses, with the success of sponsorship in more recent years, the
auctions have been used to help raised funds for Perl projects and other events.

However, don't feel you need to include an auction, if you don't have an
abundance of items to put up for auction.

Auctions can vary in style from region to region, and often rely on high profile
characters from the community to set the scene and make the auction into a fun
event. North America usually hold their auction during the conference dinner,
while European events typically hold it at the end of the last day of the
conference. Whenever you schedule it, be mindful to keep it to a tight time
schedule. Not everyone has money to splash, and keeping people interested after
the tenth or twentieth book is hard.

Be mindful that many attendees will not understand what the auction is about,
especially some of the bizarre items that have appeared in the European auctions,
so take the time to explain it. First time attendees will not necessarily know
the history and humour of the auctions.

Not everyone will participate in the auction. On the boat around Toronto harbour,
many people didn't participate in the auction, even though they were a captive
audience. Some will want to help out by bidding on cool books, t-shirts, and
unusual items, but not everyone will have large amounts of cash to donate.

Consider having a silent auction, where you can side line large numbers of books
and t-shirts and the more sedate auction items, for attendees to bid on away
from the main auction. If possible put up a web page with all the silent auction
items, so that attendees can view them at their leisure. Make it easy for people
to bid on the silent auction items, so they can bid early, often and keep the
prices rising :)

The regular auction should only feature some of the more rare or unusual items,
which is what makes the auction fun and exciting and hopefully something to
remember. Signed copies of books, special t-shirts, abstract items for the next
conference (hair colour, logo designs) and dedications in code have all been good
money spinners in the past.

Do you know a good auctioneer? The established events have had several people who
have taken on the role of auctioneer, so you may well have several people who
could help you with this. However, for your event, you may not have any of those
people attending, so if any of your team or attendees are willing to get up and
auctioneer.

The auctioneer needs to be in control of the auction at all times. Don't be
persuaded to allow random people to take the mic, and potentially side-track the
purpose and timeslot of the auction. They must be able to halt any inappropriate
language or behaviour, and keep the audience entertained and engaged throughout.

In a live auction make use of runners. The auctioneer should be able to identify
the winning bid, but then allow someone else to handle the money transaction,
while the auctioneer moves onto the next item. Keep the momentum going, and if
the pace and interest starts to lag, consider ending the auction early if you
have no further exciting items to offer.

## CONFERENCE ACCESSORIES

While you're busy preparing funds, announcements and
many other things, there are additional smaller items that will need to be
prepared in advance. Many can be very last minute, and as such are often good to
get volunteers helping with.

### Venue signs

If the venue is difficult to find, perhaps a small part of a university, make
some signs to direct people from either the main routes near the venue, or
further afield if possible (train/bus stations). Post detailed directions (with
photos if you can) on your website, so everyone can find you. What does the
building look like, are there any distinguishing features people can look for?

Around the venue print signs (at least A4 size) with directions to speaking
rooms, toilets, refreshments, lifts and the registration desk. Note that you
need to place these around each speaking room in the building. Even with the
signs, people will still ask until they are familiar with the layout.

### The Conference Box

Don't ever under estimate the need for this. Duct Tape has often been a saviour
for all manner of last minute alterations, and you would be well prepared to
ensure you have most or all of the following (and think of a few of your own):

#### STATIONERY ITEMS

  * Various adhesive tapes;
    * Gaffer tape and/or Duct tape,
    * electrical tape,
    * sticky tape (Sellotape)
  * Post-it notes
  * Note pads
  * Pens, Pencils, Sharpener & Rubber/Eraser
  * Marker pens, white board pens and highlighter pens
  * Scissors
  * Stanley knife
  * String
  * Blu Tak
  * Cable-ties
  * Stapler and staples
  * Dusters, screen wipes and cleaning foam
  * Paper clips, rulers, rubber bands and giant paper clips
  * Stamps (+postage rate card)
  * Sticky labels, hole punch and drawing pins
  * Super glue
  * Cash box

#### ELECTRICAL ITEMS

  * AA / AAA / watch batteries
  * Long multisocket extension leads (aka power strips)
  * Spare plug adaptors (e.g. UK => EU, US => EU).
  * Spare GSM phone,
  * Universal phone charger or various branded phone chargers
  * USB flash drive (2GB or more)
  * USB cables (a variety if possible)
  * Ethernet cables
  * Tool set (screwdrivers, spanners, pliers)
  * Fuses
  * Keyboards, Mice

#### MEDICINAL ITEMS

  * Aspirin / Paracetamol / Indigestion tablets
  * First Aid Kit
  * Tissues
  * Vomit Bag
  * Cherry brandy (for crew and organisers only ;))

#### USEFUL ITEMS

  * Blank writeable CD/DVDs
  * Towel
  * Tweezers
  * Sewing kit
  * Torches (flashlights)
  * Metal coat hangers
  * Paper cups
  * Toilet roll
  * Telephone directory
  * Lighter
  * Utility knife
  * Spectacle repair kit

#### LARGER ITEMS

  * Printer
  * Scanner
  * Camera

Provide volunteers with a shopping list and see if they can get some of these
items for you. Many of the items you shouldn't need to buy, as you may simply be
able to borrow items from friends and family for the duration of the conference.

### Power Strips

You can never have too many power strips. Ensure you have plenty of 4-way or
6-way power strips around each room, running off long heavy-duty extension
cables so they reach all around the room, not just at the front and the sides.
Ask the venue if they can provide these.

Remember that for most large events (and even some smaller ones), you will have
attendees from the UK, mainland Europe, the United States and other countries,
which all have different plug types. If you're unable to provide suitable
adapters and some power strips with alternative sockets (previous organisers may
be able to forward theirs), ensure you remind anyone arriving from abroad that
they can help you immensely if they can bring at least one power strip with
them.

With all this power in the room, you will need to ensure that the power circuit
for the wall sockets can cope with the power drain. Major venues may have more
than one circuit to large rooms, with circuit breakers ensuring demand is not
too overwhelming for each circuit. Most large venue will use three-phase supply,
such that lighting, stage power and auditorium power all use different supplies.

In the UK a power circuit is usually referred to as a ring main, which operates
on 32Amps at 240Volts, and can usually cope with a considerable number of
laptops (IBM Thinkpads are typically about 80Watts) ... Watts = Volts x Amps for
those who don't remember physics :) In the US the circuits usually operate on
20Amps at 120Volts.
