# THE EVENT

## TIMELINE 4 - THE EVENT

While not strictly a timeline, the following are all items you'll
need to schedule and prepare for during the event, and make attendees aware of
throughout the event too.

  * Partner Programmes
  * Early Arrivals Meetup
  * Pre-registration
  * Registration
  * Opening Address
  * Keynotes
  * Talks
  * Birds of a Feather sessions (BOFs)
  * Tutorials & Workshops
  * Evening Events
  * Conference Dinner
  * Next Year's Conference
  * Closing Address

## CONFERENCE ORGANISATION

### Pre-Registration & Registration

It is always worthwhile opening up pre-registration
the evening before the conference. Many people will arrive early, and the more
conference material you can distribute before the day, the less time you'll be
tied up registering people on the first morning. Your time will be precious on
the first morning, so the less you have to do the better.

Whether you use the venue, a nearby bar or the conference accommodation, make
sure you give yourself plenty of time to set up. Remember that the early
arrivals will want to meet and greet other attendees. Unless you're able to
arrange pre-registration in an environment that provides food and drink, you'll
find that once attendees have registered, they will leave you and head elsewhere
to socialise. You also need to eat, so ensure your team can rotate registration
duties.

Registration during the conference should be at a specific point, that is in an
obvious and visable place, usually directly in front of where the attendees will
enter the venue. Failing that, make posters to direct people to the registration
desk.

### Staff

#### Organisers

Organisers need to stand out from the attendees. In fact, this applies to all
your staff who will be at the conference with specific duties (e.g. registration
staff, runners and timekeepers). The best method is to have a conference t-shirt
coloured differently from the attendees t-shirt. Yellow and Orange are often
colours used for organisers, as they are colours that stand out visually, and
are rarely worn as a colour by attendees.

Organisers need to be on hand to co-ordinate everything. No organiser should be
in a position where they have to disappear to get jobs done, this is what
runners and support staff are for. On the first day you will be innundated with
questions and, as event organiser, you will be a focal point for those
questions. Where possible, direct people to support staff or information online
for people to help themselves.

#### Support Staff (Runners & Timekeepers)

Runners are those people who you can call on at the last minute. Preferably at
least one of them should have a car, parked close by, who you can send on
errands to collect or buy additional items. Whether these are last minute items
you've forgotten, or picking important speakers up from the airport/station or
some other urgent need, they will be a blessing to you. Ensure their car parking
is provided free, and that they can park as close to the venue as possible.

Timekeepers are vital to a smooth running conference. Plan to have large signs
with the numbers 10, 5, 1 and END printed on them to indicate minutes remaining.
Remember to synchronise the timekeepers watches. A speaker should be aiming to
wrap up shortly at the 5 minutes marker and be pretty much done at the 1 minute
marker. After the allotted time, timekeepers need to cut off speakers from any
further speaking. Usually timekeeping can be handled by volunteering attendees.

Wherever possible, employ partners and friends that are not interested in the
conference to sit on the registration desk. While you may be there too, your
attention may be otherwise engaged. Plus, having someone who isn't interested in
the conference watching the desk means you can see some of the talks (although
you shouldn't really expect to be so lucky).

If your event is to be videoed or streamed live you might also consider having a
helper in each auditorium to attend to the microphones, data projectors, cameras
and to handle the timekeeping and various issues that might arise. If the venue
is open to the public, it may well be worth having a member of staff in the room
at all times, particularly if you have your own electrical equipment, such as
video cameras or projectors, on show.

You should reward the support staff for helping out. Whether this is a separate
meal or beer one evening after the conference or a small gift, make such you
thank them during your closing address.

### Conference Catering

All your catering should be in hand, however, there are always questions and
requests. Most attendees will ask the catering staff directly, but occassionally
you will get asked. Try and direct them to support staff wheverever possible,
but act as a gobetween if needed with the catering staff. Clearly labeling the
food options (see also dietary requirements) significantly reduces the need to
ask many catering-related questions.

If there is a language barrier it may simply need someone to translate requests
to the catering staff.

### Emergency Plan

Be prepared. Things can, and often do, go wrong during the conference: Data
projectors, laptops, microphones and other gadgets might break, power might
fail, etc. You cannot prevent these things from happening, but you can have a
plan of action to follow in the event of such problems. Know who at the venue
can perform repairs or whom to call quickly. If appropriate and possible, have
some common spare parts ready.

Degradation of the wireless internet connection can be an issue, and having
a seperate fallback internet connection (e.g. via 3G/4G) may be an option.

## NEW ATTENDEES

While the Perl conferences are about bringing the Perl Community together to
discuss and learn, it is also about welcoming new attendees into the community.
In the last few years, almost half of the attendees have been attending a Perl
conference, having been do so for the first time. Some may have been to a Perl
Workshop, and others may already be a part of the Perl Community, but many
won't know anyone.

Explain all the features of a Perl conference (such as the hallway track, IRC
and BOFs) in an introductory guide, or have a special presentation about being
part of the community. Try to include new and even those who might unfamiliar
to the community as much as possible in these events. Remind all attendees that
if they would like to talk to a speaker or even a well known attendee, all they
need to do is go up to them and say 'hello'. If it's during an evening event,
they can offer to buy them a drink. Encourage attendees to introduce themselves,
not only to speakers, but also other attendees.

Plan for a beginner style track in the schedule if you can, with some basic
introductory talks in a best practice style for things such as Basic Data
Structures, Regular Expressions, Testing or building distributions for CPAN. Try
and plan these talks towards the beginning of the conference schedule,
preferably on the first day. This then gives those attending these talks a
better chance of understanding some of the detailed talks later in the schedule.

For new attendees the whole event can feel overwhelming. If they feel welcome,
and feel they can approach other attendees, they are more likely to come again,
or even better get more involved in the community. The last thing you want is
for them to come away with a bad experience. Thankfully this rarely happens, but
keep it in mind, as you want everyone to be raving about your event to their
colleagues and managers when they return home.

## CONFERENCE SESSIONS

During the conference, there are several important presentations and sessions
that you will need to make time for in the schedule.

### Opening Address

You have a few responsibilities in your opening address:

  * Thank your sponsors and everyone who helped. Thank your sponsors again.
    All your sponsors. People gave money and time to make your event happen.
    All they get is some recognition and the worst thing you can do is forget
    them.
  * Explain what new-comers can expect from the conference. Explain that
    they can interact with anyone. This is their chance to talk to some cool
    people in a relatively informal environment. Explain about the wiki, IRC and
    the hallway track.
  * Tell people about the events that will be happening during the
    conference, so they are all aware of what is happening and where.

### Keynotes

You should have at least one keynote speaker, preferably someone very well known
within the Perl community. Many of the big names in Perl, such as Larry Wall and
Damian Conway, have given keynotes at various conferences, so don't be shy in
approaching someone you would like to see attend your event.

Keynotes can either open or close the conference, sometimes both, or even open
each morning of the conference. The format is entirely up to you and depends on
how many keynotes you've planned. If a keynote address ties into your conference
theme, then so much the better.

### Birds Of A Feather Sessions (BOFs)

Birds Of A Feather sessions are ad-hoc discussions created by and for
attendees, so that they can have additional time to work on or talk about
interesting topics to (usually) a small group of people. Make sure you allow
time and room for these. Some will want to hold BOFs during the conference day,
while others will want to find a bar or the hotel foyer in the evening.

### Announcements

Ensure you have time at the beginning of each day to make any announcements.
These will likely be schedule changes, but can be anything that you need to get
across to the attendees. If you have no changes to announce, simply remind
people about any BOFs that might be happening, and any evening arrangements
planned.

### Next Year's Conference

If you are holding a regular annual conference that changes city or country each
year, then you will likely need to make some time in the schedule to allow you
to introduce the succeeding year's organisers.

Often this is just a short announcement, with a chance for one or more of the
organisers to say hello. A slightly longer announcement may feature a short
presentation (not much more than 5 minutes) giving current attendees a taster of
what to expect. This is the type of presentation you may well have given
yourself at the conference the previous year.

Discuss this with the respective Venue Committee, as they may well nominate a
representative to make the announcement and introduce the next organising team.

### Closing Address

You have some important responsibilities you must cover in your closing address:

  * Thank your sponsors.
  * Thank your team, support staff, volunteers and everyone who helped.
  * Thank your speakers.
  * Thank your attendees for coming.
  * Remind people about the Conference Surveys if you are holding them.
  * Tell people where you are all meeting for the last evening.

The thank yous are important as people have given you their time and money to
help make this event happen, so make sure you acknowledge them all.
