# THE HISTORY

This chapter takes a look at some of the history of how the Yet Another Perl
Conference events started, where they've taken us and where they're going.
Although this history discusses specifically YAPC::NA and YAPC::Europe events,
there are many other TPC, YAPC and OSDC events now, as well as many Perl
Workshops and Hackathons, which all help to fill the calendar all year round.

Some YAPCs have since been incorporated into OSDC events. YAPC::Israel started
in 2003, and became OSDC::Israel in 2006, while YAPC::Australia has been a
sub-conference within OSDC::AU since 2004. South America benefits from having
two YAPCs, YAPC::Brazil and YAPC::SA, although the latter is run as part of
CONISU, with both occuring in Brazil one during the first half of the year, the
other during the second.

Beginning in 2005, as YAPC::Taipei, YAPC::Asia has since moved to Tokyo, where
it has become the largest YAPC in the world. Now regularly attended by around
500 people, it is very much regarded as a professional conference, with press
coverage on a scale that is rarely seen at a YAPC elsewhere in the world.
YAPC::Asia now also streams talks, allowing a virtual audience to watch the
presentations as they happen. Although most of the talks are in Japanese, there
are some presentations in English.

In 2008, YAPC::Russia was held in Moscow, and was the culmination of effort from
the organisers, who had previously got together to hold workshops across Russia
and the Ukraine. Perhaps covering the largest "local" area, YAPC::Russia is
making great leaps in promoting Perl among Russian language speakers. The
event's talks are held in Russian and English.

While not specifically about Perl, the OSDC events are very much on the same
scale as a YAPC. The majority feature Perl as a main track, but their aim is to
cover a lot more than just Perl or the Perl community.

In 2016, as mentioned earlier in the book, the North American and European YAPCs
were renamed to The Perl Conference, and are now the two largest Perl dedicated
events on the conference calendar.

## THE FIRST 12 YEARS

### 1999 - How It All Began

The first Yet Another Perl Conference was held in Pittsburgh,
PA at Carnegie Mellon University in 1999, and had about 275 participants. The
event was attended by a small but mighty group of interested and interesting
Perl people, including Larry Wall, who delivered the opening keynote on the
first day of the two-day event. The brain child of Kevin Lenzo.

### 2000 - The Art Spreads

The event was such a success that it was repeated, again at Carnegie Mellon
University, in 2000 and was dubbed YAPC North America 19100, in honour of all
the "Y2K" concerns of the time.  Attendance was some three hundred and fifty
people. Once again Kevin Lenzo led the team.

Inspired by the success of the North American event, LE<eacute>on Brocard, Greg
McCarroll and Jonathan Peterson took it upon themselves to organise the first
European YAPC in 2000, at the Institute for Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London,
with the theme "The Art of Perl."  Some two hundred people attended, with many
volunteers from London.pm and surrounding areas helping out.

### 2001 - Security

In 2001, YAPC North America left Pittsburgh for Montreal, where Richard Lafferty
and Luc St-Louis chaired the conference at the University of Montreal. About
four hundred and twenty people attended. Once again, local groups turned out in
numbers to volunteer for any and all tasks.

The European YAPC went into another strong year with YAPC::Europe 2001 at
Hogeschool Holland, Amsterdam, with a Security theme.  Ann Barcomb, Jouke
Visser, together with a large and dedicated crew from the Netherlands, created
an excellent atmosphere for both talks and discussion, raising the overall
standard once again.

### 2002 - Science

In 2002, YAPC::NA headed back below the border to Saint Louis, Missouri.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Munich.pm, the week before Oktoberfest, at Technische
UniversitE<auml>t ME<uuml>nchen, with a theme of "The Science of Perl". Norbert
GrE<uuml>ner and crew enticed Larry Wall, Damian Conway and Michael Schwern to
attend, ending the auction with Damian and Schwern featuring in a bare-chested
arm-wrestling match!

### 2003 - The One With The Two YAPC::NAs

In 2003, YAPC::NA had two vying parties, the first was alternatively titled
YAPC::Canada and held in Ottawa, Ontario, while the second was held in Boca
Raton, Florida. The Florida event was organised by Kevin Meltzer and Jeff Bisbee.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Paris.pm at the Conservatoire National des Arts et
ME<eacute>tiers (CNAM) in Paris. David Landgren, Philippe 'BooK' Bruhat and crew
held a very vibrant conference with Mark Jason Dominus managing to hold court in
the main room for all of day one.

### 2004 - Fun And Profit

Heading back towards the northern states, the 2004 YAPC::NA was held in Buffalo,
New York. Jim Brandt and team hosted the event at the University at Buffalo and
introduced a 'Poster BOF'!

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Belfast.pm (led by Karen Pauley, Marty Pauley and
Tony Bowden) in Northern Ireland, UK. As with London before them, they broke away
from the education establishments and hosted the event in a converted church,
now know as Squires.

### 2005 - Perl Everywhere

For 2005, YAPC::NA again headed north of the border and was successfully hosted
by Toronto.pm (led by Richard Dice). The Conference Dinner and Auction was held
aboard a paddle steamer, that allowed attendees to relax for an evening and
enjoy the Toronto skyline from the water.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Braga.pm in northern Portugal, at University of
Minho, Braga. JosE<eacute> Castro and Alberto Simoes worked hard to create a
great conference. They included the first all attendees Conference Dinner for a
YAPC::Europe conference, which also featured the unusual Beers Of The World BOF.

### 2006 - Accessible Perl

For 2006, YAPC::NA was hosted by Chicago.pm, and organised with great success by
Josh McAdams and Pete Krawczyk. The Conference Dinner and Auction were held in a
games arcade. The auction for this year introduced, quite successfully, a silent
auction. This meant all the regular auction items (mostly books), could be
auctioned off quickly and left plenty of time for the fun stuff.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Birmingham.pm once again in the UK, at a concert
venue, The CBSO Centre, with a theme of "The Accessibility of Perl". Barbie, Jon
Allen, Steve Pitchford and Brian McCauley, together with their onsite crew
helped to create yet another successful event, introducing an expo feature to
the European conferences similar to the Chicago event. The event was notable for
the fact it was publicly 3 years in the making, and featured a movie, "The
Birmingham Job" as part of the bid submission to host the event. Final role call
was 228 attendees.

Interesting aside: Chicago and Birmingham are also twinned-cities.

### 2007 - Social Perl

In 2007, YAPC::NA headed the furthest west it had ever been, in Houston, with
both Houston.pm and BrazosValley.pm co-organising the event, led by Jeremy
Fluhmann. Despite the humidity tiring everyone out, the conference was very well
received and the games arcade seem to go down VERY well :)

In Europe, YAPC::Europe headed to Austria, as hosted by Vienna.pm, led by Thomas
Klausner. Vienna is a city full of sights to see, and the conference itself
managed to attract some illuminating speakers too, including Larry, Damian and
Mark-Jason Dominus. The event also introduced the idea of full day workshops and
hackathons, with Parrot, Perl 6 and POE all getting their own dedicated hacker
rooms.

### 2008 - Beautiful Perl

After taking on the conference for 2006, Chicago once again hosted YAPC::NA
2008, with the team once again led by Josh McAdams and Pete Krawczyk.
As for 2006, the breakfast buffet (as well morning and afternoon breaks)
were a wonderful addition to keep everyone going throughout the day.

YAPC::Europe was Scandinavian bound, with the event being hosted by
Copenhagen.pm, featuring the organising team of Jonas B. Nielsen, Lars
Thegler and Anton Berezin. The lunch bags went down very well, which was just
as well as the city was rather expensive for many this year.

### 2009 - Corporate Perl

Celebrating ten years, although it was the 11th YAPC, YAPC::NA returned to
Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University, now holding the honour of host the
event 3 times. However for this year, Dan Wright took on the role of
organising team leader.

YAPC::Europe went to Portugal again for 2009, and although it was located in
Lisbon this time around, the familiar organisers of Jose, Alberto and Joana were
behind it all. The event featured a host of talks and tutorials, and was the
first to have a successful Partner Programme.

### 2010 - The Renaissance of Perl

YAPC::NA headed into middle America for the first time, being held very
successfully in Columbus, Ohio, with Heath Blair and Rob Kinyon leading the
team.

YAPC::Europe headed to Pisa, Italy, and featured the first time the White Camel
Awards were announced and presented outside of the OSCON event in America.
The team featured Gianni Ceccarelli, Michele Beltramei, Giuseppe D'Angelo,
Aldo Calpini and Hakim Cassimally.

### 2011 - Modern Perl

For 2011, YAPC::NA took place in the picturesque location of Ashville, North
Carolina. The organising team was led by veteran Perl event organiser Chris
Prather, together with Chris Nehren and Mathew Horsfall.

The Europeans meanwhile moved to the most Eastern city ever to hold a
YAPC::Europe, to Riga in Latvia. The conference was organized fully remotely by
the members of Moscow.pm living in Amsterdam (Andrew Shitov), Moscow (Alex
Kapranov) and Copenhagen (Dmitry Karasik). 278 people, incuding Larry Wall and
Damian Conway, attended the conference.

## CONFERENCES, WORKSHOPS & HACKATHONS

Although the first YAPC was in 1999, ten years later in 2009 we
had 5 Perl specific conferences (YAPC::NA, YAPC::Europe, YAPC::Asia,
YAPC::Brazil and YAPC::Russia), together with OSDCs now also making their mark
(Australia, Israel, France) too.

The German Perl Workshop is recognised as the first workshop (17-19 February
1999) dedicated specifically to Perl, and was organised mainly to attract German
language speakers, although it does have the occasional English language
presentation too. However, it started a trend that has since continued across
Europe, where the local country has organised their own workshops, with
presentations predominantly in their own language. This has the benefit of
attracting attendees to the community who don't speak English, and/or who are
unable to attend a major Perl conference.

Workshops and Hackathons now feature across the world, and while the native
language may have instigated some, many now are more about building on national
community support, providing a cheap way for students and self-funded
individuals to attend training, as well as company funded individuals too.

Workshops are typically 1 or 2 day events, with usually 1 or 2 tracks. In some
cases an additional specialist training tutorial may feature, but these usually
only happen at the larger workshops.  The German Perl Workshop is still a 3 day
event, but it only has one track and limits its attendance to just 200 people.
Most workshops happen over a weekend, so that those attendees that are
restricted by their working hours, can still attend without their employer's
support. Likewise for students who might otherwise have educational commitments
that they cannot avoid.

Hackathons are traditionally a more low-key event, with a very limited number of
places. They typically have a single focus, such as Perl 6, Parrot, Quality
Assurance or The Perl Toolchain, and are aimed at attracting more experienced
programmers, with often a very high degree of technical input.

Both Workshops & Hackathons are a great way to learn how to put together a
conference, as in many respects there are common organisational requirements (venue,
accommodation, food, etc). However, it isn't necessary for you to have done
something else before bidding to host one of The Perl Conference events, it just
gives you some idea of what is involved.

## HELP IS AT HAND

Having read through this book, you could be forgiven for thinking organising a
Perl conference is something you're not cut out for, but all it really takes is
a bit of enthusiasm and some friends. There are now plenty of people who are
previous organisers, who are more than happy to offer advice if you ask them.
There are the venue committees of TPF (TPC in North America) and YEF (TPC in
Europe), who would be delighted to offer encouragement where they can. There
are now plenty of resources online to help guide you through the process.
Hopefully this book is another helping hand.

As has been proved several times over, anyone can put on a conference. You don't
need any special skills. This book should point you in the right directions
whenever you need it, but mostly its an aide-memoir to the bits and pieces that
you might otherwise forget or be unaware of. In general terms, pretend it has
the words "DON'T PANIC" emblazoned across the cover, and keep it handy as a
reference when you wake up in the night thinking you have forgotten something
important. You probably haven't, but just in case .... :)

## CREDITS & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The original author of the YAPC.pm document, which was the original
inspiration for this book, was Kevin A. Lenzo, the man who instigated the whole
Perl grassroots conference experience with the very first YAPC. Kevin released
the document to CPAN, alongside creating the Yet Another Society (YAS)
organisation.

A second release was made by Jim Brandt, when the document was taken over by The
Perl Foundation and was made available on the TPF Google Code repository. After
the 2006 YAPC::Europe in Birmingham, UK, Barbie rewrote the complete document
adding many more aspects to all sections of organisation.

However, there are many people beyond the principal authors of that document,
who have helped to contribute ideas and experiences for this book. All the
previous organisers of all the YAPCs from all around the world, as well as their
attendees, have all helped to shape the YAPC/TPC story, whether they knew it or
not!

Many thoughts and suggestions have been gleened from The Conference Surveys
website, which has now been running successfully since 2006 for YAPC::Europe.

This book is intended to be a living document of how to organise a (Perl)
conference, so that it can grow with the lessons learnt and new ideas from
future conferences. If you have any ideas and suggestions for improving the
content, please contact Barbie (barbie@cpan.org) with details.

[to be added: photo credits, contributors, technical reviewers]
