# APPENDIX B

## CODE OF CONDUCT

The following was created by the organisers of YAPC::NA 2011 [Standards of
Conduct](http://www.yapc2011.us/yn2011/conduct.html).

**Reasonable Person Principle**

Reasonable Person Principle is the rule which you must abide by when attending
this conference. Put differently, following the Principle is your obligation to
your fellow community members.

The Principle was borrowed from irc.perl.org, who use it as the governing
principle for access to their network; since it works for a a couple thousand
people, we hope it will work for an YAPC Conference with a few hundred
participants.

  * Everyone will be reasonable.
  * Everyone expects everyone else to be reasonable.
  * No one is special.
  * Do not be offended if someone suggests you are not being reasonable.

Reasonable people think about their use of these facilities, and the needs of
others, and adjust their behavior to meet the goals of a common good for the
community, i.e., expressing what you want to say, but accepting and
accommodating the needs of others.
Introduction

The primary purpose for YAPC is for attendees to have fun, network and further
educate themselves. To ensure that the greatest number of people achieve this
objective we have established certain rules of conduct. By them we seek only to
ensure that the behavior of any one small group does not disturb the membership
as a whole, nor does it detract from the relaxed and comfortable atmosphere of
the convention. The YAPC Organizing Team welcomes all parties with an interest
in Perl; however, the convention's management reserves the right to deny or
revoke the membership of any individual at any time for any reason. The YAPC
Organizing Team. also reserves the right to amend these rules at any time
without prior or posted notice and reserves the sole right of interpretation. In
any dispute, the general rule above will apply. If you have any questions,
please contact the conference organizers staff for assistance.
Harassment

Harassment of any kind, including physical assault, battery, deliberate
intimidation, stalking, unwelcome physical attentions, or verbal abuse, will not
be tolerated. If people tell you "no" or to leave them alone, your business with
them is done. If you continue to attempt to have contact with those people, you
may be removed from the premises.

The YAPC Organizers are not responsible for solving any interpersonal problems
that may arise between individual members. In general, we can take no action to
prevent a person from attending the conference unless that person has made a
specific and credible threat toward the conference itself or if another
individual can produce a legal restraining order.

If you feel that a threat exists against your person, we advise you to seek a
restraining order against the individual in question and to present it to the
chairman in advance of the conference; otherwise, we recommend simply avoiding
that individual. If that individual stalks, harasses, or attempts to assault you
at the conference itself, you may report that individual to a member of the
organizing team and the appropriate action will be taken. Conversely, any
attempt to have an innocent person removed from the conference by falsely
accusing him or her of threats will be itself treated as an act of harassment
and will be dealt with appropriately. The responsibility for settling
interpersonal disputes lies solely with the individuals involved, and The YAPC
Organizers will not tolerate being used as a leveraging point in such disputes.
Miscellaneous notes

The standards of conduct for YAPC will be strictly enforced by The YAPC
Organizing Team and volunteers who will be clearly identified as such on site.
If you have any problem with any action taken by a Staff member you may take the
matter up with the The YAPC Organizing Team member responsible.

Please be reminded that these rules involve, of course, "worst-case" scenarios
and are put into place to ensure the safety and comfort of our members. They are
also not all-inclusive; in all cases, the Reasonable Person Principle applies.
We anticipate no difficulties, as our members as a whole are reasonable and
responsible adults. The YAPC Organizing Team is prepared to deal with any or all
of the above scenarios in as rapid and efficient a manner as possible should
they occur. We thank our members for their past cooperation and for their
continued assistance in making this a safe and enjoyable experience for
everyone. Have fun - just please remember to be courteous of those around you
while doing so!
