=head1 RESEARCH ACCOMMODATION OPTIONS

Z<accommodation_options>

Where are your attendees going to stay?

While you are investigating your venue options, you should also bear in mind 
what accommodation facilities are available nearby. If you are hosting the 
conference at a university, you may be able to use the student accommodation. 
However, some will prefer a more traditional hotel option. Others would also 
consider Youth Hostels, so check out where your nearest one is.

Note that accommodation doesn't need to be next door, or even walking distance 
from the venue, but it must have adequate transport links between the two. 
Whether this is via bus, metro or train is largely immaterial, so long as you 
are not expecting your attendees to get taxis or walk excessively long 
distances.

Call some of the hotels and investigate whether they offer the opportunity for 
discounts. Many will hold a large number of rooms and offer a discount for 
conference organisers, as they are being guaranteed a significant booking for 
your conference dates.

Ensure that hotels can provide ethernet (wired or wireless) capabilities, and 
find out what their rates are for 1 day or 1 week. Some hotels offer free WiFi 
in their lobby, but charge for in-room access. Free is the best choice of 
course.

Do not enter into a contract with any hotel, where you are expected to cover any 
shortfall for rooms not occupied. Attendees are expected to book their own 
rooms. Any discounts offered should be based on the fact that you are 
recommending attendees to stay at a particular hotel.

