=head1 ACCOMMODATION

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
Z<accommodation_recommendations> Everyone needs somewhere to stay. It's unlikely
you are willing to have several hundred geeks living with you for a week, so
you'll need to investigate what suitable accommodation is available.

As part of your research for your bid, you will hopefully either have somewhere 
in mind for everyone, or know of a few places that would be suitable. If you've 
been able to negotiate a deal with a primary hotel so much the better.

=head2 Recommended Accommodation

A primary conference hotel and a less expensive dorm-style option should form 
the basis of your recommendations. If there are others that are worth considering, 
especially if the primary hotel cannot accommodate all your attendees, make sure 
you include them. If the conference venue also includes accommodation in the 
package make sure you mention this. 

For a variety of reasons, not all attendees may want to stay in the same place. 
Some attendees will find their own accommodation, regardless of any 
recommendations you make, however try to highlight accommodation at a reasonable 
cost for both professionals and self-funding individuals. The latter may make up 
a notable part of your attendance and their living costs while at the conference 
shouldn't be inhibiting.

Try and negotiate a deal with a hotel on price, both for a single person and for 
two people (twin or double). Tell the hotel how many people you expect to be 
staying there, as this can give you significant bargaining power. If possible 
ask them to hold rooms for your attendees. This then ensures that any special 
rate you have negotiated can be applied to those rooms for the duration of the 
stay, as prices can differ over a weekend to weekday stay during the course of 
the year. Include breakfast if possible.

If you are organising a deal with a hotel, it may be worth trying to include 
wireless or wired internet into the deal. Most hotels have a broadband internet 
connection, and while some do provide this for free, others can charge high
rates.  If the price is right, many attendees will be happy to pay a flat rate
for the week, but a high per day charge is likely to reduce the hotel's potential 
revenue as attendees create their own WLAN between rooms. Many attendees will 
want to have internet access as they will either have work commitments during 
the conference, or simply wish to surf, hack, blog and write emails while in
their rooms, so ensure you choose accommodation that can provide this.

Your primary choice of accommodation should also provide somewhere for people to 
hang out. Many hotels have large foyer and bar areas, where people can gather in 
the evening to chat and hack the night away. Preferably there should be a bar 
that opens late, but at the very least there should be access to refreshments so 
attendees can congregate and socialise.

The hotel doesn't need to be right next to the venue, but if you recommend one 
that's where most people will go. If the hotel isn't immediately adjacent to the 
venue, you will need to work out all the directions and map details, so that 
people can easily get from the hotel to the venue and back.

Dorms or dorm-style housing may also be available, if you are hosting the 
conference at a university. However, most student accommodation, while cheap, is 
also very basic and may not be able to provide suitable facilities for people to 
"hang out" in the evening. Certainly take advantage if it is available, as 
several attendees travelling on a low budget will thank you afterwards.

=head2 Negotiating Deals

When negotiating a deal, start early. Give the hotel your conference dates and 
some idea of numbers (they don't have to be accurate). With this you usually 
have some bargaining power to get reasonable deals. Do not under any 
circumstances guarantee room sales, and make this clear to hotels if necessary. 
Try to include breakfast and internet connectivity in the room price, or at 
least try and secure a package deal where possible.

If you are planning a conference during a hotel's quiet period, they are more 
likely to provide reasonable discounts. Research the hotel's room costs by phone 
and online before negotiating any deals, so you know whether you are getting a 
reasonable discount. If the deal isn't suitable and you can hint that 100-200 
room reservations could go to a competing hotel, they may reconsider. The 
important piece here is research. The hotel is a business and won't offer any 
deals unless you are able to provide them with reasons why they should.

Once you do negotiate a deal, be prepare to find that the hotel subsequently 
offers a special rate, as time gets close to your event. If this happens alert 
your attendees, as the special offer may not match the deal you have negotiated. 
Check whether your deal and the special offer includes breakfast, an internet 
rate or anything else. If there are differences, let attendees know. In some 
case your attendees will likely tell you first anyway.

=head2 Discount Codes

When negotiating deals, hotels often supply you with a discount code, that
attendees can make use of to get a discount when booking their room online,
over the phone or even in person.

Advertise the discount code to your attendees, without making the offer too
public. Using a mailing list mailout, or dedicated page on your website is
usually fine, but advertising on blogs and publicly distributed newsletters
is ill-advised, as non-conference attendees may take advantage of all your
negotiations, and your real attendees may lose out.

