=head1 ANNOUNCEMENTS

Z<announcements> Throughout your preparations, you will need to plan when to make announcements. 
There are some key milestones that need to be announced promptly, but it's also 
important to remember to post newsletters and updates to the community early and 
frequently, so that they know that the conference is still happening, and can 
plan their travel, accommodation, etc. as soon as possible.

Announcements can be split into two types; Milestones and Newsletters. For the 
former you must prepare an official announcement that will be publicised on your 
website, to the community and beyond, while the latter is more typically 
promoted on your website and to select community sites.

=head2 Milestones

These we will cover in more depth later, but ensure you schedule release dates 
for these on your project plan

=over

=item * Call for Papers

=item * Call for Registration

=item * Deadline for Abstracts

=item * Deadline for Papers 

=item * Publishing The Draft Schedule

=item * Closing Registration

=back

=head2 Newsletters

You should plan to release regular newsletters or updates about various aspects 
of the conference. Your attendees will want to be kept updated about all sorts 
of things that you wouldn't necessarily feature in a milestone announcement. 
This might include news about what is happening behind the scenes, new sponsors, 
accommodation, special promotions, events around the conference, and many other 
items that help to generate excitement and interest about the conference.

Post newsletters regularly. Between 2-6 months before the conference, try to 
post newsletters at least once a month. With less than 2 months before the 
event, you should be trying to post something every week if you can. As you get 
closer to the conference, you'll suddenly find there are lots of things to talk 
about. If you're lost for anything to say, tell people about updates to the 
wiki, BOFs that are being planned, and any special plans you might be working on 
for the event.

Newsletters are an invaluable way to publicise your event. Posted on your 
website and on community related websites, it attracts a search engine ranking 
that helps to raise awareness of your event. Include links to various pages on 
your website and wiki, so that others can link to specific areas of interest in 
your newsletters. Post links to the newsletters on various social networks, such 
as Facebook, Twitter and Identi.ca, and any other technical related networks, 
websites and forums that you think appropriate. Get included on technical event 
calendars, such as the Perl Community Google Calendar, Facebook Events, LinkedIn 
events and any other similar technical community calendars that you think 
appropriate.

Don't be afraid to promote your event. With one caveat. Don't over promote 
yourself to the same people with the same post. In particular this refers to 
posting about your event to mailing lists, where some may be signed up to all 
the same mailing lists you are posting to. It can generate a backlash if anyone 
feels like they are being spammed. As such keep posts to mailing lists brief if 
they are not specifically related to your event. For YAPC events there are 
mailing lists that people can sign up to where many aspects of the conference 
can be discussed. On these mailing lists it is perfectly acceptable to post your 
newsletter in full.

For reference the known YAPC mailing lists are:

=over

=item * yapc@perl.org - primarily for YAPC::NA

=item * conferences@yapceurope.org - for YAPC::Europe

=back

Search for past press releases from previous conference organisers to get an 
idea of the kind of things you can include. Obviously there will be much more 
general information to begin with, and very specific items closer to the actual 
event.

Also give advance notice of deadlines closing about a week before and often the 
day before as well. It never hurts to remind people of deadlines, particular via 
the mailing lists and the micro-blogging networks.

Keep the information flow going. NEVER assume that just because you're really 
busy organising the event, everyone else will know that. If you don't keep 
regular communication going, people will start to wonder whether something has 
gone wrong. Even if you can only announce that you can't announce anything yet, 
that will be enough to let everyone know that you are still doing something :)

Try to plan your announcements in advance. Set some annoucement dates in your 
project plan, alongside your key dates, for when you want to post an 
announcement or newsletter, then give yourself time to prepare and proof read 
it. Make sure any dates, times or email addresses you mention are correct.

