=head1 PREPARE YOUR BID

Z<bid_prepare> With your initial team assembled, research in progress and a
budget outline, you're now in a position to begin preparing your bid proposal.
Many bid submissions from previous years are available online, so it is very
worthwhile reviewing these. If you're not able to find previous bids, ask the
venue committee to point you towards past examples. Remember that the venue
committee themselves are made up of previous organisers and are there to help
you make a successful bid.

Previous bids provide great examples of the kinds of things that the venue
committee are expecting you to include in your bid. But what NEEDS to go into a
proposal?  As a bare minimum, your bid document should include the following:

=over

=item * B<Your Team> - who is working with you, and who are the points of 
contact.

=item * B<Your Location> - where are you in relation to the world and your 
country? How are people going to get there?

=item * B<Primary Venue Choice> - include enough of your research to give a good 
background to your venue's suitability. You can mention you have other choices, 
but focus on your primary venue.

=item * B<Transportation> - describe notable transport infrastructure, together 
with rough costs (if you can) and travel time for taxis, buses, trains and metros
between airport, accommodation and venue.

=item * B<Accommodation> - highlight where hotels/hostels/dorms are in relation 
to your venue, and some idea of cost for a single room and double room for 
hotels. This need not be exact, but must be enough to give a reasonable 
impression of costs for attendees.

=item * B<Budget> - possibly the most important aspect of your proposal, as the 
committee will want to know how you expect to pay for everything.

=item * B<Provisional Dates> - while not absolutely necessary, it can be helpful 
to make the committee aware of the dates that you are considering.

=item * B<Local Attractions> - list some tourist attractions, festivals & other 
events that will be happening around the same time.

=item * B<Supporting Information> - if you have some secondary choices for 
venues, or other information that might aid your bid, feel free to add it in 
brief. Possibly include links to websites for the reader to investigate 
themselves.

=back

After all the research, you'll now need to assemble it all into a document that 
can be submitted to the venue committee. How you present the document is 
entirely up to you, but at the very least provide a standard formatted document 
file, e.g. PDF, Office Document (MS Word or Libre Office Writer), POD file or 
plain text file. In addition you may wish to supply a link to a website or wiki 
with further information and videos or photo galleries to provide visual 
examples of the location, venue, etc.

No matter what you put into your proposal you will always get asked some 
questions by the venue committee as they try to judge between your proposal and 
any others. The venue committee always tries to evaluate the proposals on equal 
terms, so if you do omit any important details, you are likely to get asked to 
provide further information.

While it might seem obvious to present your venue choices, don't forget to 
include as much as possible to support your bid. 

=head2 Your Location

Where are you in the world and/or your country? How are you expecting people to
travel to your town/city? Remember that you are likely to have some 
international travellers, who may not speak your native language. You may be 
fortunate enough to have a local tourist information bureau that can provide 
details for promoting your town/city.

=head2 Provisional Dates

The dates for your conference should be considered carefully. Discuss the dates 
you are planning to propose with your primary (and secondary) choice of venue to 
ensure that they have those dates available to you.

Dates are not just important for booking the venue, but also for getting your 
attendees to come to your conference. Do you have any special world or national 
famous events taking place before or after your conference? Are hotel and flight
costs going to reflect that? For example, flying to or via a country hosting the
World Cup around the time of your event can increase flight costs alone by 4 or
5 times.

However, local celebrations may also be a good reason to persuade attendees to 
bring partners and/or extend their stay to take in more of your city. Munich 
hosted YAPC::Europe 2002 the week before Oktoberfest, Paris hosted YAPC::Europe 
2003 prior to the weekend when the Tour de France came through the streets of 
Paris and Toronto hosted their YAPC::NA 2005 during a month long celebration 
with firework displays.

=head2 Local Attractions

Does your town/city offer any interesting tourist attractions, or have an 
annual festival that attendees might be interest in attending too? What will 
attract people to your town/city beyond the conference? It's always worth 
listing a few reasons why people might want to come to your town/city, even if 
you weren't hosting a conference. Some attendees often extend their visit to 
take in some sightseeing, so it's worth getting a little background information 
to add to your bid.

Are there famous places or landmarks nearby that attendees might like to visit? 
Are there any interesting facts about your city/town that attendees might not 
know? Toronto had all the Rush (the band) haunts to visit, both Toronto and 
Buffalo had Niagara Falls close by, Birmingham had the history of JRR Tolkien 
(Perrott's Folly and Sarehole Mill) and Shakespeare (Stratford-upon-Avon) to 
draw on, Chicago had The Sears Tower (now The Willis Tower) and well Paris is
Paris!

Check out some of the local history, there's always something hidden away that 
might be a fun fact to help promote your event.

=head2 Submitting Your Bid

The venue committee usually announces the method for which you should submit 
bids, but file or online documents are usually the most appropriate. The members 
of the committee will have questions for you, so ensure you include who should 
be contacted (and how) for further questions. If you have a group helping with 
the proposal set up a mailing list (see note below) so that all the group 
members can respond. Having one point of contact can be a bottleneck if that 
person falls ill or is on holiday.

While you may have grand ideas to submit your bid in an unusual form, always 
ensure you have some form of standard document to accompany it. Several groups 
have previously submitted videos to help introduce the organisers and show why 
they think you should choose their city, however standard documentation was 
also submitted.

If after submitting your proposal, you suddenly discover that you have further 
relevant information to provide to the venue committee, feel free to contact 
them further and provide it. The venue committee are well aware how stressful it 
can be to compile a proposal, as they've all done it themselves. They are also 
looking to award the bid to a host that can put on the best possible conference, 
so any additional material that supports your bid is often very welcome.

=head2 Expect Questions

When you submit your proposal, the venue committee will begin to discuss 
it, together with all the other proposals they have received. Their aim is to 
give the opportunity of hosting a conference to the team that they feel will
provide the best conference possible. As such, they are not going to dismiss your 
proposal simply because you have not mentioned something that they feel is 
important. Rather they will compile additional questions that you will need to 
answer promptly.

In order to respond to questions, ensure you provide a contact email address 
with your proposal. This can be a single person, a group of people or a 
dedicated organisers mailing list address. Whichever you choose, ensure someone 
is able to respond.

So what questions can you expect? Well it largely depends on how good the 
proposals are. In some instances only brief supplementary information is needed, 
while at other times, there may be something quite important missing. Some 
questions that nearly always get asked include:

=over

=item * Can the Wifi support every attendee at once?

=item * Are there enough power outlets for everyone to use a laptop?

=item * Do venue rooms have disabled access?

=item * How do you plan to promote the conference?

=back

These are only a few examples, and often it can help if you think ahead and try 
and review your proposal and ask yourself what would you want to know more 
about?

