=head1 YOUR BUDGET

Z<budget_progress> From this point onwards your budget needs to be tightly
controlled. You will need to keep a handle on what costs are mounting up (paid
and unpaid) and what income you have coming in, as well as your targets to
balance the books. If you have a group member who is good with figures or has
accounting or bookkeeping skills, use them to help create a budget you can work
with.  

=head2 Income

=head3 Sponsorship

This is a tricky part of organising a conference, and is likely to be your 
biggest source of income. Hopefully your contacts with sponsors from the 
previous six months are starting bear fruit. Even if you have enough sponsorship 
at this point, don't stop trying to contact potential sponsors.

Promote your sponsorship pack and encourage community members to either talk to 
marketing staff within their own companies, or provide you with contacts. The 
sooner your budget becomes positive the sooner you can plan all the extras you 
thought of in your bid.

=head3 Registration Fees

Your next biggest source of income is the registration fee. Ideally you want 
this fee to cover the per-person costs as much as possible, so the attendee is 
paying their way for the attendee specific expenses. One way to decide a fee is 
to add up your costs on a per-attendee basis. You'll need to bear in mind any 
exemptions (see below) in your calculations.

Up to and including the 2005 conference, both YAPC::NA ($85) and YAPC::Europe 
(E<euro>99/E<pound>65) had managed to keep registration fees low. In 2006 
Chicago introduced an early bird scheme ($85/$100), while Birmingham offered a 
two tiered scheme (E<pound>100/E<pound>75). The early bird incentive can 
encourage a number of self-funding individuals to register early and provide 
early funds, while late deciders then have to pay the higher rate. With the two 
tier scheme, the standard rate was aimed at those individuals who were being 
paid to attend by their companies, and the individual rate for those who were 
self funded. By not having an early bird incentive, this meant registration was 
much more consistent throughout the registration period.

The goal is to try to keep the price as low as possible, as you don't want the 
registration fee to be a barrier to someone attending, particularly if an 
attendee is paying for themselves, which many do. The low fee also opens the 
door to students and other non-corporate supported attendees, who want to get a
taste of what Perl is all about. As a further alternative, you may want to
introduce a Student Rate, which allows students to register for a very low fee
on the understanding that they must provide proof of their student status when
they sign-in at the registration desk. This is most useful for encouraging
student attendance locally and nationally, although you may also get some
international students too.

Many companies regularly send attendees to conferences and for most the 
registration fee is a small part of their overall costs of sending delegates to
an event, when they factor in travel and accommodation costs. As such, many
companies would still send attendees even if the price doubled. By using this
to help offset the cost for self-funding individuals and students, you are more
likely to have quite a diverse mix of attendees. For YAPC::Europe 2009, a
Corporate Rate of E<euro>2000 was introduced, which aside from covering
conference attendance, also covered attendance to a class or tutorial taking
place before or after the main conference days.

The Corporate Rate was introduced following suggestions from some previous
attendees, who had said convincing their boss that it was a valuable and
professional conference to attend was difficult due to the low price of the
Registration Fee. Having a rate that matched similar corporate events, made it
appear more appropriate to their managers. Strange, but true!

=head2 Exemptions

Typically presenters and keynote speakers are given free entry, since that's all
you really have to offer. However, you need to decide what your cut-off point is,
as talks can range from a 5-minute lightning talk to a full day seminar. One
system commonly used is:

=over

=item * Keynotes: free

=item * Talks 20 minutes or more: free

=item * Talks less than 20 minutes, including lightning talks: full registration

=back

You may also want to grant free entry to some of your volunteers. Note that you
are incurring cost for all of these people for things like venue hire, food,
t-shirt, etc. so don't grant free admission to everyone. Save it as a reward for
volunteers who helped consistently and productively throughout the planning
process.

If anyone from the above groups wishes to pay the full Registration Fee to help
with the running costs, then by all means allow them to do so, as there may be
other ways of thanking them. It has not been unheard of for a keynote speaker
to have a bowl of their favourite sweets waiting for them at the lectern.

=head2 Expenditure

=head3 Insurance

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
Insurance is something that easily gets forgotten about, until organisers talk
to previous organisers. Have you thought about what would happen if something
goes disastrously wrong? What if a week before your conference, your chosen
venue becomes unavailable (fire, flooding, health and safety or even worse a 
previously unknown double booking)? You need insurance to ensure that you and 
your team are not held personally liable or become out of pocket if anything 
happens, either before or during the conference that forces you to move or
cancel the event. Most event insurance is pretty standard, and most venues will
have insurance which cover damage to the building. But your insurance liability
is definitely something you need to investigate.

In some cases, TPF may be able to help cover costs if you encounter some 
difficulties, but do not rely on this help. Wherever possible, ensure adequate 
insurance cover is provided. Specific areas of insurance coverage include:

=over

=item * Buildings Insurance (usually the venue has this, but double check)

=item * Event Insurance (you'll need to arrange this)

=item * Exhibitors Insurance (exhibitors usually have this)

=back

Regarding the latter, if you are allowing sponsors or other exhibitors to be 
onsite, with a manned or unmanned stand, then they will need to be covered by 
their own event insurance. In many cases your insurance for the event will not 
cover your exhibitors, so ensure they have a policy. Many large companies, who 
are regular exhibitors, will likely have a standard company policy.

What are you liable for? In most cases it will simply be the event itself. 
However, clarify with the venue exactly what they expect of you, and note 
anything that potentially you may be liable for in the event of breakage or 
cancellation.

=head2 Profits

It may seem odd to discuss profits, but many conference have been successful
enough to have a surplus profit at the end of the event. With increased sponsor
interest, and low production costs, you may find you have an unexpected source
of revenue, either for other events or supported projects. 

Profits from previous Perl Conferences have either gone to one of The Perl
Foundation development funds, to future event organisers, the local host group
for them to fund local activities (such as hiring rooms or buying a projector
for local technical meetings), The Enterprise Perl Organisation's project funds,
or to other community funds and projects.

Passing funds to the organising team for the following year, provides them with
a "float" to be used to book a venue and arrange deposits for any long lead time 
items.

=head2 Tax Exemption

Tax is a tricky area both financially and legally. If you are setting yourselves
up as a Charity or Non-Profit organisation, then you may be able to claim tax
exemption, depending on the qualifications of the national Tax Office. However, 
this is not always easy and you are best advised to seek legal advice to clarify 
whether this is possible.

If you are organising a Perl event in the United States of America, then The Perl
Foundation can help to some degree as they are a tax exempt organisation,
providing you plan to use their services to benefit from this. Contact them for
details. 

