=head1 PLAN A BUDGET

Z<budget_plan>

Your budget is crucial. How much do you except your conference will cost? How 
much sponsorship do you anticipate? How much do you expect to charge attendees? 
How many paying attendees are you expecting? How many speakers are you expecting 
to attend and for how many of them will you be paying for travel and/or 
accommodation expenses?

Without an idea of your budget, you really have no idea how you are going to pay 
for the conference. Your costs may be vastly different from other conferences, 
and simply scaling sponsorship and attendance fees may not be appropriate. 
Understand exactly what you are planning to pay for, and get some idea of costs. 
While these figures may not be accurate, you should try and get estimates for 
all your big essential items, then plan for it all to cost at least 10% more.

At this point in time, you will not know how many people will attend, how many 
sponsors you will attract and, ultimately, how much money you will have to cover 
your costs. However, you do have a lot of previous budgets and numbers, which 
can help to give you some idea. Be conservative in your expectations. You must 
be able to cover your basic costs before any extravagant items are included in 
your budget.

Your costs largely fall into two categories, necessities (the venue, break 
catering, travel and accommodation for your high profile speakers, insurance, 
various sundry items), and luxuries (t-shirts, the conference dinner and 
proceedings programme). The latter items should all be considered only after you 
have covered all costs for your main items.

