=head1 CALL FOR PAPERS

Z<call_for_papers> The Call for Papers should be announced 4-6 months before the
conference. This gives speakers time to decide what talks they will submit. Give
them at least a month to respond, preferably longer. If you have decided on a
conference theme, announce that in the Call for Papers, as often speakers will
tailor their talks specifically with your chosen theme in mind.

Do you have any specific talks or topics you'd like to have? If so list them in 
the Call for Papers. Also do not be afraid to approach some well known speakers 
and ask whether they would give a presentation on the subject you want. Some may 
be reluctant, but others may be glad to be given a specific subject to work on.

There may be several topics that you can already assume you will get submissions 
for (e.g. Perl6 and Moose), but you will likely get submissions for related 
topics that you didn't expect. Take advantage of this and schedule common topics 
into a single track, even if they only cover single morning or afternoon on one 
day.

=head2 Submission Deadlines

Call for Papers is probably misnamed these days, as it is really a Call for 
Abstracts, as the submissions you will receive are the abstracts of talks. If 
you are planning a proceedings booklet, in which you wish to include copies of 
the talks, then advertise this in the Call for Papers, with a separate deadline.

Always state a timetable in the Call for Papers including:

=over

=item * deadline for talk abstract submissions

=item * when talk acceptance and decline emails are being sent

=item * deadline for speaker acceptance

=item * official announcement of schedule (first draft)

=item * deadline for papers (if required for proceedings booklet)

=back

The deadline for talk abstracts is your soft deadline, and should be at least 
2-3 months before your conference, to give you time to review talks, accept 
talks, speakers to accept and publish a schedule. The schedule needs to be 
online as early as possible to give attendees an idea who and what will be at 
your event.

Plan for a soft and hard deadline (usually one week apart), in case anything 
goes wrong. The hard deadline is when you plan to begin assessing all the talks. 
If you need to change the soft deadline as you approach the date, ensure you 
announce a revised timetable. If you've allowed for a hard deadline, this should 
not affect other dates. See Planning Your Schedule (below) for what to do once 
you have your abstracts in.

Giving yourself a soft deadline means anyone submitting their talk "late", can 
still have a chance to be included. Many speakers will submit their talks at the 
last minute, and delays or network failures may mean you have some late 
entrants.

=head2 Talk Submissions

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
Ensure you include all the details of how speakers should submit their talks. 
Preferably have an online form which includes all the all the questions and
information you need from the speakers. These should include:

=over

=item * Title

=item * Abstract

=item * Reference Material

=item * Keywords

These enable you to quickly spot common topics and talks.

=item * Audience

Beginner, Intermediate, Expert, All.

=item * Duration

Limit selection if you have set lengths.

=item * Special Requirements

While you'll be providing a room, a projector and an audience, the speaker may 
need additional resources to help them present, such as an internet connection, 
a flip chart or something else.

=back

These should provide you with enough background for each talk, to be able to see 
whether they relate to other talks or conflict with other talks. If two talks 
look likely to be exactly the same, you may wish to contact the speakers and see 
whether they wish to make a joint submission, or rework their talks for beginner
and advance audiences, so they can flow from one to the other.

