=head1 CALL FOR REGISTRATION

Z<call_for_registration> Many attendees will attend the conference regardless of 
who will be speaking. 
Many speakers and attendees will simply be attending to meet with collaborators 
on various projects. Others may need convincing. 

Conference Registration should open at least 2-4 months before the start of the 
conference. If you're in a position to open earlier then you should do so, as 
some attendees may plan their trip well in advance. 

There are two other benefits to opening registration early. The first is 
monetary as early registrations allow you to have additional funding on hand to 
balance your budget. Secondly, it gives you an early estimate of the numbers you 
can expect. While attendance numbers won't increase linearly over time, you may 
get a rough idea of whether your anticipated capacity is going to be met.

You should note that Conference registration is not the same as website 
registration. Within ACT (and other systems) many people will have high hopes of 
attending, and register their intentions to attend, but until they actually pay 
for the conference registration you won't know whether they will attend or not. 
Technically you still won't know, but at least you have the money!

Detail how people can register and pay for their conference tickets. Also 
outline your pricing structure. How many ticket prices you have depends largely 
on what you are planning to provide and the types of people you are hoping to 
attract to the event. As an absolute you should have a Standard Rate, but there 
may be others you want to include:

=over

=item * Corporate Rate

Often a cheap way to sponsor the event, offering attendance to the conference, 
at least one paid class and possibly other opportunities. Attendees paying the 
corporate rate might require a printed and signed invoice. You might also 
consider giving these attendees extra goodies like an extra sponsorship 
t-shirt or print the company names in the proceedings and the name badges.

=item * Standard Rate

The regular price for attendees

=item * Early Bird Rate

If you open registration several months before the conference, you may want to 
encourage early payment to help with funding, so may want to offer a small 
discount.

=item * Student Rate

There are a small number of attendees currently studying for degrees, who are on 
a limited budget. These are our potential stars of the future, so if you can
offer a reduced price, you may encourage them to attend. A reduced rate may also
apply to local attendees if the average income in the host country is well
below regional average.

=item * Early Bird Rate

You might also consider to introduce a discounted rate for early registrations.
Early registrations are good way of generating early income and hence helping 
you to initially finance the conference and to get an estimate on the expected
attendance numbers.

=item * Friend Of Perl Rate

This is where the ticket price covers that of the attendee and another that 
might not otherwise be able to attend without finacial help. Typically this is 
to enable students and our rising stars to attend the conference.

As an alternative you may wish to promote a 'Send A Newbie' programme, which 
accepts donations to cover flights and accommodations for those who would not be 
able to attend without financial help. The European 'Send A Newbie' programme was 
specifically setup to provide financial assistance to those who have never 
attended a YAPC before.

=back

In many cases the conference ticket price is the cheapest item in attendance 
expenses. Travel and accommodation will be considerably higher, so offering
cheaper rates does not always make a big difference for many of your attendees.

