=head0 AN INTRODUCTION

The Perl Community is a wonderful thing. It is a collective of people who share 
a common interest, the Perl programming language, but express that interest in 
so many different ways. The projects, user groups and events all capture a 
different part of the community, but it wasn't until the late 90s that the 
community started to co-ordinate their activities.

In 1998 the first Perl Workshop took place in Germany, and in 1999 the first 
YAPC Perl conference took place. These were the beginnings, but the events 
themselves have grown and become further reaching than the initial core 
developers that came along to those first events.

This book was originally written to provide help and advice for anyone 
organizing a "Yet Another Perl Conference" (YAPC) event. However, it contains 
many examples and hints for proposing, planning, and running any successful 
conference, workshopor large technical event. While there are many aspects that 
would be applicable only to a YAPC Perl conferences, much of the content will be 
informative for any group with an interest in promoting collaborative efforts 
and furthering discussion on a focused technical topic or who are thinking of 
planning their own Open Source conference, workshop or large technical event.

The intended audience for this book is a small, but dedicated team that would 
like to plan, prepare and put on an event like the YAPC grassroots conference 
and symposium series for the Perl programming language. These conferences have 
usually been organised by a small local core group of individuals, with the aid 
of the local user groups as well as the members of the local and wider Perl 
Community.

Throughout this book, the focus is very much on YAPC::NA and YAPC::Europe, as 
these are the two annual conferences that the author has first hand experience 
with. In future revisions, it is hoped that experiences and suggestions from 
those involved with other YAPCs will also feature. Feel free to ignore the 
specific references that may not be applicable to organising your event.

=head1 What Is A YAPC?

Just in case you've come across this book and are not from the Perl Community 
or even the wider Open Source community, you might be wondering what a YAPC is.

The YAPC acronym comes from "Yet Another Perl Conference", although it is 
rarely known by its full title these days, and is pronounced "YAP-SEE". A YAPC
event traditionally lasts three days, with further days of classes, tutorials,
workshops, hackathons or seminars occasionally preceding and/or following the 
main event. 

The core event days feature keynotes, talks, lightning talks, birds of a feather 
sessions (BOFs) and open discussions for the whole assembly. Any additional days 
around the conference are either limited-attendance classes or dedicated 
small-group events that will appeal to only a small number of attendees.

A YAPC event is meant to be an inexpensive, grassroots conference primarily 
focused on the Perl programming language, and is aimed at beginners and experts
alike. Although organized by volunteers, the events are supported by The Perl 
Foundation (TPF) globally and the YAPC::Europe Foundation (YEF) in Europe. 
Both TPF and YEF are non-profit organisations, and often the local organising 
group will establish themselves with a similar status. Any profit raised by the
events is used to help fund future local events or the local user groups 
activities, some may be donated future YAPC events or to the TPF/YEF 
organisations, while some often gets put forward to help fund Perl development
projects. 

The original idea for the conferences came as a reaction to expensive 
commercial conferences, and aimed to bring more self-funded individuals (such 
as students or developers with or without their employer's support) into the 
Perl community, as well as giving those same individuals a chance to share 
ideas and contribute to Perl projects. However, in more recent years, the 
corporate world has seen the benefit of sponsoring the events, which has 
enabled many high-profile members of the Perl community to attend and speak at
the events, as well as helping to ensure the conferences still remain 
relatively inexpensive.

=head1 A Bit Of History

In 1999 the first Yet Another Perl Conference was held in Pittsburgh, PA at 
Carnegie Mellon University and had about 275 participants. The event was 
attended by a small but mighty group of interested and interesting Perl people,
including Larry Wall, who delivered the opening keynote on the first day of the
two-day event. The primary organiser of the event was Kevin Lenzo, who then 
created the Yet Another Society to help administer the YAPCs.

The following year a group of London Perl Mongers decided to follow 
Pittsburgh's lead and organised the first YAPC::Europe in 2000 (or 19100 as it 
was originally listed) at the Institute Of Contemporary Arts, on the Mall (a
short walk from Buckingham Palace).

Since then other YAPCs have established themselves around the world, with some 
evolving into wider interest Open Source Developers Conferences (OSDC) 
incorporating Perl, Python, Ruby and several other languages. 

Most of the organisers for these events began their conference planning with the 
same limited knowledge and experience you have right now. Reading this book will 
enable you to avoid some of the pitfalls that others have fall into, and will 
prepare you for the work ahead.
