=head0 THE EVENT

L<timeline4>

L<conference_organisation>

=head1 NEW ATTENDEES

While the Perl conferences are about bringing the Perl Community together to 
discuss and learn, it is also about welcoming new attendees into the community. 
In the last few years, almost half of the attendees have been attending a Perl
conference, having been do so for the first time. Some may have been to a Perl
Workshop, and others may already be a part of the Perl Community, but many
won't know anyone.

Explain all the features of a Perl conference (such as the hallway track, IRC
and BOFs) in an introductory guide, or have a special presentation about being
part of the community. Try to include new and even those who might unfamiliar
to the community as much as possible in these events. Remind all attendees that
if they would like to talk to a speaker or even a well known attendee, all they
need to do is go up to them and say 'hello'. If it's during an evening event,
they can offer to buy them a drink. Encourage attendees to introduce themselves,
not only to speakers, but also other attendees.

Plan for a beginner style track in the schedule if you can, with some basic 
introductory talks in a best practice style for things such as Basic Data 
Structures, Regular Expressions, Testing or building distributions for CPAN. Try 
and plan these talks towards the beginning of the conference schedule, 
preferably on the first day. This then gives those attending these talks a 
better chance of understanding some of the detailed talks later in the schedule.

For new attendees the whole event can feel overwhelming. If they feel welcome, 
and feel they can approach other attendees, they are more likely to come again, 
or even better get more involved in the community. The last thing you want is 
for them to come away with a bad experience. Thankfully this rarely happens, but 
keep it in mind, as you want everyone to be raving about your event to their 
colleagues and managers when they return home.

L<conference_sessions>

