=head0 THE AFTERMATH

=head1 THANK YOUS

Write individual mails or letters to each sponsor, thanking them personally for 
their contribution. It never hurts to say thank you, and if you have created the 
right kind of rapport, then hopefully the sponsor will be willing to sponsor 
future events.

It can never be emphasised enough just how important it is to ensure that your 
sponsors get recognition for being part of your event. They have supplied funds 
that have covered costs and enabled you to get a higher profile than you might 
have otherwise had. Ensure they know how much you appreciate their involvement.

=head1 ACCOUNTS

Ensure your accounts are in order. While the money you raise is (hopefully) 
enough to cover all your costs, you still need to pay any outstanding bills. If 
you have incorporated as a non-profit organisation, then it would be wise to 
seek the advice of an accountant.

Nobody wants you to go out of pocket, or receive unexpected bills from the tax 
man, so ensure that you know exactly what your income and expenses all were. 
There is no requirement to make these public, but you may wish to summarise them 
for future organisers if they ask.

=head1 THE CONFERENCE SURVEY

As mentioned earlier, The Conference Surveys are a recent feature of Perl
conferences and workshops in North America and Europe. The main conference
survey is opened at the end of the conference and runs for about 2 weeks. This
is usually enough time for the attendees to get home, collect their thoughts and
put together a response. After the deadline, the survey is closed and the
results are collated and published on The Conference Surveys website.

The individual talk and tutorial evaluation surveys are opened from the 
beginning of the conference and are available until the same deadline as the 
main conference survey. The talk evaluations are open to everyone, while the 
tutorial evaluations are usually only open to those who attended them. The
results of the evaluation surveys are then sent to the speakers only, with the
aim of helping them improve their presentations for the future.

For organisers of The Perl Conferences in North America and Europe, it is likely
that you will be contacted in advance of the conference to arrange a survey for
your event. However, for anyone else, a survey is possibly something you would
want to run if your event occurs annually, or even if you just want to get some
feedback from the event. All the survey software is available OpenSource on
CPAN, so can be set up in isolation if you wish, although feel free to contact
the Conference Survey administrators (admin@yapc-survey.org) for any help and
advice.

Statistics and surveys are extremely useful, both for yourselves and future 
organisers, in providing some reasonably accurate data for helping to improve 
future events. Take advantage of them if you can, as they may contain some 
otherwise unspoken ideas. However, also bear in mind that following all the 
suggestions and feedback, you are never going to please everyone, and no matter 
how hard you try, you are never going to have a perfect conference. So long as 
the majority had a good time, then you've done well.

=head1 WHAT NEXT?

Your next step is to have a rest. Arrange a night out for all the organisers and 
staff, as you've all earned it.

After your break away from all the organising, have a think about what you can 
offer as advice for future organisers. Read through this book and see whether 
there is anything that you would add from your experience that isn't included 
here? Are there resources you used or created that can be passed on?

If there is anything you can add, write it all up and submit for inclusion in a 
future edition. This book is intended to be a living book, in that it will get 
regularly updated with thoughts and experiences from new organisers every year.

