=head0 ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Barbie was born in Congleton, Cheshire in 1965. He first became interested in 
computers with the launch of the Sinclair home computers (ZX80, ZX81 and ZX 
Spectrum) from 1980 onwards. Studied Computing at Lanchester Polytechnic (Now 
Coventry University) and joined GEC Telecommunications as a C programmer.

In 1998 he first discovered Perl, and in 1999 was offered his first job as a 
Perl programmer at tw2.com in Birmingham. Encouraged by I<Richard Clamp> and 
I<Dave 'The Goth' Thorn>, he became involved with the London Perl Mongers and 
then along with I<Mike Bissett> co-founded the B<Birmingham Perl Mongers>.

After attending the first YAPC::Europe in 2000, in London, Barbie is now only 
one of a few who have attended every YAPC::Europe event since. After organising 
the 2006 YAPC::Europe Perl Conference, he decided to write down all the things 
that he felt future organisers should prepare themselves for. This book has been 
several years in the making, and will likely never be finished. But he says it 
has been fun :)

=head1 THE NAME

It may surprise you to know that Barbie is actually the author's real name. How 
the name Barbie came about is a long story, and maybe if you buy him a Guinness 
at 
a future conference, workshop or large technical event, he might tell you it. It 
might not be the true story, but it will be a long story ;)

=head1 WHY PERL JAM?

The idea for the name of the book came from fellow Birmingham Perl Monger, Steve 
Pitchford, who had the idea for a Perl event, which mixed coding with a musical 
jam session. We ultimately organised the YAPC::Europe event in 2006, but the 
name still hung around with the possibility for using for a hackathon of some 
kind. After Steve asked if anyone wanted the domain, perljam.info, it seemed to 
be an ideal fit for the name of the book.
