=head0 THE HISTORY

This chapter takes a look at some of the history of how the Yet Another Perl 
Conference events started, where they've taken us and where they're going. 
Although these are specifically YAPC::NA and YAPC::Europe events, there are many 
other YAPCs and OSDC events now, as well as many Perl Workshops and Hackathons, 
which all help to fill the calendar all year round.

Some YAPCs have since been incorporated into OSDC events. YAPC::Israel started 
in 2003, and became OSDC::Israel in 2006, while YAPC::Australia has been a 
sub-conference within OSDC::AU since 2004. South America benefits from having 
two YAPCs, YAPC::Brazil and YAPC::SA, although the latter is run as part of 
CONISU, with both occuring in Brazil one during the first half of the year, the 
other during the second.

Beginning in 2005, as YAPC::Taipei, YAPC::Asia has since moved to Tokyo, where 
it has become the largest YAPC in the world. Now regularly attended by around 
500 people, it is very much regarded as a professional conference, with press 
coverage on a scale that is rarely seen at a YAPC elsewhere in the world. 
YAPC::Asia now also streams talks, allowing a virtual audience to watch the 
presentations as they happen. Although most of the talks are in Japanese, there 
are some presentations in English.

In 2008, YAPC::Russia was held in Moscow, and was the culmination of effort from 
the organisers, who had previously got together to hold workshops across Russia 
and the Ukraine. Perhaps covering the largest "local" area, YAPC::Russia is 
making great leaps in promoting Perl among Russian language speakers. The 
event's talks are held in Russian and English.

While not specifically about Perl, the OSDC events are very much on the same 
scale as a YAPC. The majority feature Perl as a main track, but their aim is to 
cover a lot more than just Perl or the Perl community.

L<first_11_years>

L<other_events>

=head1 HELP IS AT HAND

Having read through this book, you could be forgiven for thinking organising a 
YAPC is something you're not cut out for, but all it really takes is a bit of 
enthusiasm and some friends. There are now plenty of people who are previous 
organisers, who are more than happy to offer advice if you ask them. There are 
the venue committees of TPF (YAPC::NA) and YEF (YAPC::Europe), who would be 
delighted to offer encouragement where they can. There are now plenty of 
resources online to help guide you through the process. Hopefully this book is 
another helping hand.

As has been proved several times over, anyone can put on a YAPC. You don't need 
any special skills. This book should point you in the right directions whenever 
you need it, but mostly its an aide-memoir to the bits and pieces that you might 
otherwise forget or be unaware of. In general terms, pretend it has the words 
"DON'T PANIC" emblazoned across the cover, and keep it handy as a reference when 
you wake up in the night thinking you have forgotten something important. You 
probably haven't, but just in case .... :)

L<credits>
