=head0 THE PREPARATION (the First Six Months)

You've won the bid, and now you will need to prepare yourselves for the work 
ahead. Some aspects of organising will be fun, some will be agonising, while 
others will be a mix of both. Take a deep breath, it will come together.

At this early stage, despite any pleadings and honourable requests, DO NOT 
commit to anything that could potentially derail your plans. Focus on the 
essential parts of the conference organisation first. You'll have plenty of time 
to schedule other activities and requests later.

L<timeline2>

L<project_plan>

L<team_building>

L<venue_booking>

=head1 ANNOUNCE THE DATES

If you haven't announced your dates six months before the conference begins or 
at the beginning of the calendar year (whichever is sooner), at least try and 
put out an announcement about when you will be announcing dates.

Everyone attending your conference needs to either book holiday or training 
time. The earlier they know when the conference is, the easier it is for them to 
plan their activities around you.

However, do not annouce dates until you have booked the venue. Changing dates 
later can be very costly, particular when speakers and attendees have made plans 
for your original dates and cannot change them.

=head1 CONFERENCE THEME

While your in the early stages of planning, think about whether you want a theme 
for your event. Some conferences choose a theme to encourage talks regarding a 
specific topic, though you will get talk submissions on a vareity of topics, but 
some speakers will tailor their talks to fit the theme.

An appropriate theme can help inspire logo and style branding for the event, 
which can then be used on the website and in any literature you produce. It will 
add to the professional look of the event, and give corporate sponsors and 
managers a good impression of your event.

Note that it isn't a requirement to have a theme, so don't worry of you don't 
think of one.

L<website_design>

L<sponsorship>

L<accommodation_recommendations>

L<mailing_lists>

L<surveys>

L<code_of_conduct>
