=head0 THE PROPOSAL

For The Perl Conferences in North America (formerly YAPC::NA) and Europe
(formerly YAPC::Europe), there are committees to judge bid proposals and 
award a winning team the opportunity to host a conference event. The North
American venue committee is governed by The Perl Foundation, while the
Europen venue committee is governed by The YAPC::Europe Foundation.

Each year, usually several months before the forthcoming event, a Call For 
Venue is posted by the respective venue committees to the regular Perl news 
channels and user groups, asking for interest. However, it is helpful if you 
have already started to prepare a proposal before the Call For Venue is posted.

L<timeline1>

=head1 WHERE TO START?

So you've decided that you would like to host a conference. Where do you start?
Your preparation can start anything from 4-6 months to 2-3 years before
submitting your bid, and its worthwhile giving yourself time to do some research.

At its core, hosting a OpenSource technical event means providing a location for
members of your technical community (new and old) to get together, present and
discuss projects, ideas and learn from each other.  Although the Perl conferences
have grown to include many other features, these are still the main goals. As
such, your initial preparations should focus on the following criteria:

=over 

=item * Prepare Your Team

=item * Research Your Venue 

=item * Research Accommodation Options

=item * Review Transport Facilities

=item * Plan A Budget

=item * Prepare Your Bid

=back

L<team_prepare>

L<venue_research>

L<accommodation_options>

L<transport>

L<budget_plan>

L<bid_prepare>

L<venue_committee>
