=head1 CONFERENCE EVENTS

Z<conference_events> The following are all activities that can take place during 
the conference. Some are nice to have, so don't feel pressured to provide all of
them.

=head2 Day Trips & Partner Programmes

If feasible, see if you can organise a partner programme during the event. Many 
attendees bring partners, family or friends along with them, and while the 
conference may well be of interest to the attendee, their entourage may not be 
so thrilled.

At the very least, suggest places to visit. Museums and places of interest 
should already be featured in local guides. Ask your volunteers if they are 
willing to act as tour guides for a small group. Failing that, is there a 
professional tour guide company that would be willing to do a special rate for 
you? In the last two cases you will need to get an estimate for how many will be 
taking advantage of the partner programme, and may even need to charge a fee to 
cover costs.

Some attendees will plan to arrive several days early or leave a few days after 
the conference to take in some sightseeing. Try to arrange a day trip somewhere 
if you can, although this usually works best after the event, as more people 
have gotten to know each other. If you have other commitments, at least see if 
you can arrange to meet up in the evening for a meal or on pub outing. These can 
give early arrivals a chance to socialise somewhere you know is good (remember 
that many attendees may not have been to your city before), as well as for late 
leavers to say a final farewell.

=head2 Early Arrivals Dinner

Depending upon how you are planning to do your pre-registration, you may want to 
try to arrange for everyone arriving early to meet for food. Many attendees will 
be arriving the day before the conference, and would rather be guided towards 
somewhere for food and drink, than have to find it for themselves and 
potentially make a bad judgement.

If you are just meeting in a bar or pub, make sure you can suggest good eating 
venues nearby (include options for those on a low budget or with special 
dietary requirements).

The Early Arrivals Dinner is always at the attendees own expense, and should not 
be part of your conference budget. However, do recommend somewhere for this to 
take place and possibly book it if you can. When deciding on a place to 
recommend, always talk to the manager for a large conference. Explain that you 
are expecting 100+ attendees to turn up on the night. Do they have staff to 
cope, can they make that many food orders, will there be enough beer? It is not 
unusual for the meetup venue to not believe you, and find that 150 people 
suddenly turn up, wanting beer and food, with 1 or 2 staff behind the bar, not 
enough food and not enough beer. And yes it has been known for attendees to 
drink a pub dry!

Emphasise that the establishment is likely to take several thousand through 
their tills, and it really is worth their while getting extra staff, food and 
beer in.

=head2 Conference Dinner

The conference dinner is always a nice to have, but you should either get 
sponsorship for it, or only include it once you have covered all your basic 
costs. Like the venue, it can be a large cost to your budget. If you are hosting 
the conference at a university, you may find they are able to provide facilities 
for large numbers for either a sit-down meal or buffet. Other large venues 
(pubs, bars and hotels) with function rooms may also be available with catering. 
Toronto even managed to secure a buffet on a paddle steamer around Toronto 
Harbour for YAPC::NA 2005.

Ensure you consider dietary preferences. As mentioned in Chapter 1 (see
'Catering - Dietary Requirements'), you'll have some attendees who are 
vegetarians or vegans, possibly some with food allergies and maybe others who 
require kosher or halal food. Although you may not be able to cater for all 
preferences, at least trying to provide some alternative options will help to 
include rather than alienate many attendees.

Regardless of the venue, some people won't come to the dinner and some will 
leave after the dinner. Most do attend the dinner, but not all. Caterers will 
want definite numbers, so it may be wise to allow for 90% of your anticipated 
number. Also bear in mind that some attendees will be travelling with partners 
and possibly family, and may want to bring them along. If you are planning to 
have an additional charge for guests, please ensure that attendees know this in 
advance. For Birmingham, our funds increased dramatically in the last few weeks, 
which meant we could invite all the guests free of charge.

In the early years, both European and North American Perl conferences have held
a "Speakers Dinners". While this is certainly a nice thank you to the speakers,
you also need to be careful not to segregate and alienate the attendees from the
speakers. In the past it has meant regular attendees were deserted for a night
and left to fend for themselves. If you weren't part of the "in-crowd",
particularly if it was your first time at a large conference, it didn't make for
a good experience.

If you wish to hold a Speaker's Dinner, try and arrange something outside of the
conference timetable wherever possible. Both Chicago and Houston have held a
Speakers' Party after the last day of the conference, as many speakers were
international and had plans to fly home over the following days, while most of
the regular attendees were already making their way home. Any attendees
remaining longer by now had made new friends and at least knew the area well
enough to not feel ignored.

If time and the dinner venue permits, an entertainment program, such as the 
Geek-Quiz held in Lisbon, can be a great idea to encourage attendees to break
the ice and get to know each other, as well as providing more of an incentive 
for people to remain at the venue socialising.

=head2 Other Evenings

Suggest other events, though not necessarily organised, for other nights of the 
conference. This may only require you to suggest a local pub or bar that is 
capable of holding most of your attendees. Some will want to hack away wherever 
the accommodations are, others will want to have food and drink elsewhere and 
get to know other attendees better. However, if you have a home base somewhere, 
most people will be reassured that they can at least find someone associated 
with the conference. This can be very important for first time attendees as many 
will not know anyone else. Be inclusive wherever possible.

=head2 Conference Auction

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
The auction are somewhat of a tradition with some Perl conferences, and while
they were initially used a means to raise funds for the organisers to cover
outstanding expenses, with the success of sponsorship in more recent years, the
auctions have been used to help raised funds for Perl projects and other events.

However, don't feel you need to include an auction, if you don't have an
abundance of items to put up for auction.

Auctions can vary in style from region to region, and often rely on high profile
characters from the community to set the scene and make the auction into a fun
event. North America usually hold their auction during the conference dinner,
while European events typically hold it at the end of the last day of the
conference. Whenever you schedule it, be mindful to keep it to a tight time
schedule. Not everyone has money to splash, and keeping people interested after
the tenth or twentieth book is hard.

Be mindful that many attendees will not understand what the auction is about,
especially some of the bizarre items that have appeared in the European auctions,
so take the time to explain it. First time attendees will not necessarily know
the history and humour of the auctions.

Not everyone will participate in the auction. On the boat around Toronto harbour,
many people didn't participate in the auction, even though they were a captive
audience. Some will want to help out by bidding on cool books, t-shirts, and
unusual items, but not everyone will have large amounts of cash to donate.

Consider having a silent auction, where you can side line large numbers of books 
and t-shirts and the more sedate auction items, for attendees to bid on away 
from the main auction. If possible put up a web page with all the silent auction 
items, so that attendees can view them at their leisure. Make it easy for people 
to bid on the silent auction items, so they can bid early, often and keep the 
prices rising :)

The regular auction should only feature some of the more rare or unusual items, 
which is what makes the auction fun and exciting and hopefully something to 
remember. Signed copies of books, special t-shirts, abstract items for the next 
conference (hair colour, logo designs) and dedications in code have all been good 
money spinners in the past.

Do you know a good auctioneer? The established events have had several people who 
have taken on the role of auctioneer, so you may well have several people who
could help you with this. However, for your event, you may not have any of those
people attending, so if any of your team or attendees are willing to get up and
auctioneer.

The auctioneer needs to be in control of the auction at all times. Don't be
persuaded to allow random people to take the mic, and potentially side-track the
purpose and timeslot of the auction. They must be able to halt any inappropriate
language or behaviour, and keep the audience entertained and engaged throughout.

In a live auction make use of runners. The auctioneer should be able to identify
the winning bid, but then allow someone else to handle the money transaction,
while the auctioneer moves onto the next item. Keep the momentum going, and if
the pace and interest starts to lag, consider ending the auction early if you
have no further exciting items to offer.

