=head1 THE CONFERENCE PACK

Z<conference_pack> A conference pack for attendees at a large conference 
typically consists of the 
proceedings, a writing implement, a writing pad, t-shirt, badge and bag. A 
smaller conference may have far less. All these and more are up for sponsorship. 
Many sponsors are more than happy to provide pens, pads and other goodies to put 
in your conference pack. However, remember to accurately inform the sponsors of 
how many attendees (plus a margin for late entry) you expect and the date by 
which they need to send you their swag.

A deadline for items, particularly from sponsors, needs to be a suitable time 
before the conference to give you and your team time to pack everything into the 
bags. A good deadline would be 1-2 weeks before the start of the conference.

=head2 Conference Proceedings

If you are planning on providing a Conference Proceedings booklet, whether 
electronic or printed, you'll need something to fill it. Typically the booklet 
should include a schedule (accurate at the time of going to press), information 
regarding the conference venue (room location maps, wifi connection details, 
contact numbers), some local information (emergency numbers, taxis, transport 
information) together with details of talks.

This last item is often of the most interest to attendees as it helps them to 
decide which talks to attend while at the conference. Some don't plan ahead, and 
some don't have laptops (or no internet connection) to be able to read abstracts 
online. At the very least try to include the talk abstracts in the booklet, but 
where possible see if speakers can provide proper papers for their talks. Some 
will send you academic style papers, while others will simply make copies of 
their slides. All should be acceptable.

However, do speakers know you want actual papers to be submitted, and not just 
the talk abstracts? In your initial Call for Papers state whether you plan to 
include academic papers or slides, and set a deadline for them. When you notify 
speakers that you have accepted their talk, remind them that you would like them 
to submit an official paper. You may wish to ask speakers for a short biography 
to include in the proceedings, regardless of whether they submit papers.

At least a week before the deadline, contact those speakers who haven't 
submitted a paper and remind them. It's unlikely you will get inundated with 
papers, but you will hopefully get enough to make it worthwhile.

Make sure you include sponsor information in any conference proceedings. Ask 
sponsors for logos, as short introduction and any web links that they wish to 
promote themselves. If you have space you may want to offer half-page or 
full-page advertising space to sponsors too.

=head2 Maps

Hard copy maps are extremely valuable to attendees. Maps of the venue, your city 
and transport networks are often well used as attendees navigate their way 
around. If possible get paper copies of any maps you can obtain from the venue 
or local tourist information.

Many bus and train stations will have maps and it may be worthwhile contacting 
them to see if they can supply you with a few hundred.

=head2 Schedule

Include a printed copy of the event schedule in the conference pack or have 
copies available at the registration desk. Since the schedule may change you 
may wish to only include the schedule for the first day, with the schedules for 
subsequent days made available at the conference reception desk, at the 
beginning of each morning.

=head2 Badges

Conference badges with the attendees name and/or nick are a great way of 
bringing people together. The badge could optionally include the attendees 
country, Perl Monger group affiliation and company (particularly useful for 
sponsors and anyone paying business tarif). Be wary of providing too much 
personal information, including email addresses, as some attendees may not wish 
to have their personal details so publicly visible.

Instead of providing personal details on the badge, it may be more appropriate 
to print a QR-code image, which provides a link to the attendees online profile. 
For example you could link to the attendee's ACT profile, which the attendee 
themselves can control what they wish to make public.
