=head1 CONFERENCE ACCESSORIES

Z<conference_accessories> While you're busy preparing funds, announcements and many other things, there 
are additional smaller items that will need to be prepared in advance. Many can 
be very last minute, and as such are often good to get volunteers helping with.

=head2 Venue signs

If the venue is difficult to find, perhaps a small part of a university, make 
some signs to direct people from either the main routes near the venue, or 
further afield if possible (train/bus stations). Post detailed directions (with 
photos if you can) on your website, so everyone can find you. What does the 
building look like, are there any distinguishing features people can look for?

Around the venue print signs (at least A4 size) with directions to speaking 
rooms, toilets, refreshments, lifts and the registration desk. Note that you 
need to place these around each speaking room in the building. Even with the 
signs, people will still ask until they are familiar with the layout.

=head2 The Conference Box

Don't ever under estimate the need for this. Duct Tape has often been a saviour 
for all manner of last minute alterations, and you would be well prepared to 
ensure you have most or all of the following (and think of a few of your own):

=head3 STATIONARY ITEMS

=over

=item * Various adhesive tapes;

=over

=item * Gaffer tape and/or Duct tape,

=item * electrical tape,

=item * sticky tape (Sellotape)

=back

=item * Post-it notes

=item * Note pads

=item * Pens, Pencils, Sharpener & Rubber/Eraser

=item * Marker pens, white board pens and highlighter pens

=item * Scissors

=item * Stanley knifes

=item * String

=item * Blu Tak

=item * Cable-ties

=item * Stapler and staples

=item * Dusters, screen wipes and cleaning foam

=item * Paper clips, rulers, rubber bands and giant paper clips

=item * Stamps (+postage rate card)

=item * Sticky labels, hole punch and drawing pins

=item * Super glue

=item * Cash box

=back

=head3 ELECTRICAL ITEMS

=over

=item * AA / AAA / watch batteries

=item * Long multisocket extension leads (aka power strips)

=item * Spare plug adaptors (e.g. UK => EU, US => EU).

=item * Spare GSM phone,

=item * Universal phone charger or various branded phone chargers

=item * USB flash drive (2GB or more)

=item * USB cables (a variety if possible)

=item * Ethernet cables

=item * Tool set (screwdrivers, spanners, pliers)

=item * Fuses

=item * Keyboards, Mice

=back

=head3 MEDICINAL ITEMS

=over

=item * Aspirin / Paracetamol / Indigestion tablets

=item * First Aid Kit

=item * Tissues

=item * Vomit Bag

=item * Cherry brandy (for crew and organisers only ;))

=back

=head3 USEFUL ITEMS

=over

=item * Blank CDs

=item * Towel

=item * Tweezers

=item * Sewing kit

=item * Torches (flashlights)

=item * Metal coat hanger

=item * Paper cups

=item * Toilet roll

=item * Telephone directory

=item * Lighter

=item * Utility knife

=item * Spectacle repair kit

=back

=head3 LARGER ITEMS

=over

=item * Printer

=item * Scanner

=item * Camera

=back

Provide volunteers with a shopping list and see if they can get some of these 
items for you. Many of the items you shouldn't need to buy, as you may simply be 
able to borrow items from friends and family for the duration of the conference.

=head2 Power Strips

You can never have too many power strips. Ensure you have plenty of 4-way or 
6-way power strips around each room, running off long heavy-duty extension 
cables so they reach all around the room, not just at the front and the sides. 
Ask the venue if they can provide these.

Remember that for most large events (and even some smaller ones), you will have 
attendees from the UK, mainland Europe, the United States and other countries, 
which all have different plug types. If you're unable to provide suitable 
adapters and some power strips with alternative sockets (previous organisers may 
be able to forward theirs), ensure you remind anyone arriving from abroad that 
they can help you immensely if they can bring at least one power strip with 
them.

With all this power in the room, you will need to ensure that the power circuit 
for the wall sockets can cope with the power drain. Major venues may have more 
than one circuit to large rooms, with circuit breakers ensuring demand is not 
too overwhelming for each circuit. Most large venue will use three-phase supply, 
such that lighting, stage power and auditorium power all use different supplies. 

In the UK a power circuit is usually referred to as a ring main, which operates 
on 32Amps at 240Volts, and can usually cope with a considerable number of 
laptops (IBM Thinkpads are typically about 80Watts) ... Watts = Volts x Amps for 
those who don't remember physics :) In the US the circuits usually operate on 
20Amps at 120Volts.

