=head1 CONFERENCE SESSIONS

Z<conference_sessions> =head2 Opening Address

You have a few responsibilities in your opening address:

=over

=item * Thank your sponsors and everyone who helped. Thank your sponsors again. 
All your sponsors. People gave money and time to make your event happen. All 
they get is some recognition and the worst thing you can do is forget them.

=item * Explain what new-comers can expect from the conference. Explain that 
they can interact with anyone. This is their chance to talk to some cool people 
in a relatively informal environment. Explain about the wiki, IRC and the 
hallway track.

=item * Tell people about the events that will be happening during the 
conference, so they are all aware of what is happening and where.

=back

=head2 Keynotes

You should have at least one keynote speaker, preferably someone very well known 
within the Perl community. Many of the big names in Perl, such as Larry Wall and 
Damian Conway, have  given keynotes at various YAPCs, so don't be shy in 
approaching someone you would like to see attend your event.

Keynotes can either open or close the conference, sometimes both, or even open 
each morning of the conference. The format is entirely up to you and depends on 
how many keynotes you've planned. If a keynote address ties into your conference 
theme, then so much the better.

=head2 Birds Of A Feather Sessions (BOFs)

Birds Of A Feather sessions are ad-hoc discussions created by and for 
attendees, so that they can have additional time to work on or talk about 
interesting topics to (usually) a small group of people. Make sure you allow 
time and room for these. Some will want to hold BOFs during the conference day, 
while others will want to find a bar or the hotel foyer in the evening.

=head2 Announcements

Ensure you have time at the beginning of each day to make any announcements. 
These will likely be schedule changes, but can be anything that you need to get 
across to the attendees. If you have no changes to announce, simply remind 
people about any BOFs that might be happening, and any evening arrangements 
planned.

=head2 Next Year's Conference

If you are holding a regular annual conference that changes city or country each 
year, then you will likely need to make some time in the schedule to allow you 
to introduce the succeeding year's organisers.

Often this is just a short announcement, with a chance for one or more of the 
organisers to say hello. A slightly longer announcement may feature a short 
presentation (not much more than 5 minutes) giving current attendees a taster of 
what to expect. This is the type of presentation you may well have given 
yourself at the conference the previous year.

=head2 Closing Address

You have some important responsibilities you must cover in your closing address:

=over

=item * Thank your sponsors.

=item * Thank your team, support staff, volunteers and everyone who helped.

=item * Thank your speakers.

=item * Thank your attendees for coming.

=item * Remind people about the Conference Surveys if you are holding them.

=item * Tell people where you are all meeting for the last evening.

=back

The thank yous are important as people have given you their time and money to 
help make this event happen, so make sure you acknowledge them all.
