=head1 CONFERENCE ORGANISATION

=head2 Pre-Registration & Registration

Z<conference_organisation> It is always worthwhile opening up pre-registration the evening before the 
conference. Many people will arrive early, and the more conference material you 
can distribute before the day, the less time you'll be tied up registering 
people on the first morning. Your time will be precious on the first morning, so 
the less you have to do the better.

Whether you use the venue, a nearby bar or the conference accommodation, make 
sure you give yourself plenty of time to set up. Remember that the early 
arrivals will want to meet and greet other attendees. Unless you're able to 
arrange pre-registration in a environment that provides food and drink, you'll 
find that once attendees have registered, they will leave you and head elsewhere 
to socialise. You also need to eat, so ensure your team can rotate registration 
duties.

Registration during the conference should be at a specific point, that is in an 
obvious and visable place, usually directly in front of where the attendees will 
enter the venue. Failing that, make posters to direct people to the registration 
desk.

=head2 Staff

=head3 Organisers

Organisers need to stand out from the attendees. In fact, this applies to all 
your staff who will be at the conference with specific duties (e.g. registration 
staff, runners and timekeepers). The best method is to have a conference t-shirt 
coloured differently from the attendees t-shirt. Yellow and Orange are often 
colours used for organisers, as they are colours that stand out visually, and 
are rarely worn as a colour by attendees.

Organisers need to be on hand to co-ordinate everything. No organiser should be 
in a position where they have to disappear to get jobs done, this is what 
runners and support staff are for. On the first day you will be innundated with 
questions and, as event organiser, you will be a focal point for those 
questions. Where possible, direct people to support staff or information online 
for people to help themselves.

=head3 Support Staff (Runners & Timekeepers)

Runners are those people who you can call on at the last minute, preferably one 
has a car, to go and get stuff for you. Whether these are last minute items 
you've forgotten, or picking important speakers up from the airport/station or 
some other urgent need, they will be a blessing to you. Ensure their car parking 
is provided free, and that they can park as close to the venue as possible.

Timekeepers are vital to a smooth running conference. Plan to have large signs 
with the numbers 10, 5, 1 and END printed on them to indicate minutes remaining. 
Remember to synchronise the timekeepers watches. A speaker should be aiming to 
wrap up shortly at the 5 minutes marker and be pretty much done at the 1 minute 
marker. After the allotted time, timekeepers need to cut off speakers from any 
further speaking. Usually timekeeping can be handled by volunteering atendees.

Wherever possible, employ partners and friends that are not interested in the 
conference to sit on the registration desk. While you may be there too, your 
attention may be otherwise engaged. Plus, having someone who isn't interested in 
the conference watching the desk means you can see some of the talks (although 
you shouldn't really expect to be so lucky). If your venue is accessible to the 
public you also might consider having one helper in each auditorium to attend 
the microphones, data projectors, cameras and eventually to handle the
timekeeping and various issues that might arrise.

You should reward the support staff for helping out. Whether this is a separate 
meal or beer one evening after the conference or a small gift, make such you 
thank them during your closing address.

=head2 Conference Catering

All your catering should be in hand, however, there are always questions and 
requests. Most attendees will ask the catering staff directly, but occassionally 
you will get asked. Try and direct to support staff wheverever possible, but act 
as gobetween if needed with the catering staff. Clearly labeling the food options
(see also dietary requirements) significantly reduces the need to ask many 
catering-related questions.

If there is a language barrier it may simply need someone to translate requests 
to the catering staff.

=head2 Emergency Plan

As everywhere things might go wrong during the conference: Data projectors,
laptops, microphones and other gadgets might break, power might fail, ect. 
You cannot prevent these thins from happening, but you can be prepared. Know
who at the venue can perform repairs or whom to call. Eventually have some 
common spare parts ready.

Since degratation of the wireless internet conection is often an issue having 
a seperate fallback internet connection (eg. via 3/4G) for the organisers is 
also a good idea.
