=head1 THE CONFERENCE SCHEDULE

=head2 Choosing Talks

Z<conference_schedule> After the hard deadline for abstracts, you should allow your team at least a 
week to decide which talks to accept. Arrange a meeting with your team once 
everyone has had a chance to read through the abstracts. You'll then be able to 
make some quick choices as to what to accept and reject, hopefully making it a 
little easier to whittle down your selection. 

The abstracts will often be all you have to judge talks on. For new speakers you 
may also want to do some research to see whether they are known, or have already 
contributed to the community.

Your team needs to decide which talks you are going to accept. How you decide 
which to accept is entirely up to you. Some teams print out all the talk 
abstracts, without listing the speaker, and rank the talks in order of interest, 
while others give priority to known good speakers or see whether commonly themed 
talks would fit together. If there are specific themes you want to include, try 
matching common talks together and pick the best of the bunch. You will likely 
have multiple submissions from some speakers and hopefully you will be able to 
have some talks in reserve should you need them.

Once you think you have all your talks, put them into a rough schedule spreading 
them across rooms and days to see how they fit. This is important, as you may 
have multiple talks from the same speakers, while others may not be attending 
for the whole conference, and you will need to spot potential clashes and avoid 
them.

For any clashes that cannot be resolved by moving talks, can they be resolved by 
removing a talk? If so then this may be worth marking as a reserve talk. 
Hopefully you'll be over-subscribed with talks, so you'll have plenty of choices 
to make.

When aligning your schedule, there are two points worth bearing in mind. 
Firstly, popular speakers and topics are likely to attract a large audience, so 
ensure such talks are in a room that can accommodate them. Secondly, make time 
for first-time or less well-known speakers, as they deserve a chance to make an 
impression on the attendees (hopefully it's be a good impression).

When planning your schedule, consider how many rooms you will need and what 
timeslots will be available. It is traditional to have 20 minute and 40 minute 
talks, so you'll need to work out whether you'll have talks of the same length 
at the same time, or will mix them. Also plan to have suitable gaps between 
talks (about 10 minutes is best) to allow people to pack-up, move between the 
furthest rooms and prepare themselves for the next talk. If you make it too 
short, either people will be leaving before the end of talks, walking in on 
talks after they've begun or miss talks because it's too late to get to the next 
one.

Plan your start, break, lunch and end times carefully. Breaks should be at least 
20-30 minutes, giving time to get a tea or coffee and find the toilet. Lunch 
should between 60-120 minues (60-90 minutes if you are providing lunch). Do not 
start your conference before 9am. It's rare that attendees even start work 
before that, so don't expect them to be in full attendance each morning at 8am 
or earlier! Start each day with announcements, and allow 10 minutes for any 
important information such as schedule changes. You finish each day will likely 
depend on when your venue closes. Some are accommodating and will let you stay 
late, allowing for BOFs at the venue, while others will charge overtime if you 
stay over your allotted hours. Don't try to cram too much into your schedule. If 
you don't have the time or the rooms, having 5 minutes between talks and 
starting at 8am is not a good solution.

=head2 Strategic Schedule Choices

Consider the following fixed points for your schedule:

=head3 Keynote immediately after registration on the first day

Having the full assembly at the start has the following important benefits:

=over 4

=item *

Your other rooms can be used as storage for items that are delivered before the
conference starts but will be needed only later (Goodies, seating area, sponsor
material to replace the registration area, food for the first break, etc.)

=item *

Only one room needs to be completely ready in the morning of the first day

=item *

Organisational announcements are seen by everyone

=item *

Delays due to the setup are easily centralized. No speaker can disrupt the
schedule by starting early. Everybody has to wait.

=back

=head3 Keynote and Lightning Talks at the end of the conference

Having a central talk at the end mirrors the benefits of the starting day.
You can clean up and close the other rooms early. You get convenient storage
for items that need to be out of the way. No attendees are around while you
organize the retrieval and dismantling of equipment (catering, projector,
sponsor booths, banners/guides, etc.)

=head2 Accepting Talks

Once you have your draft schedule, you'll need to contact all the speakers who 
have submitted talks you have accepted. Contact speakers for each accepted talk, 
holding back on any talk that you haven't accepted right now. If you're asking a 
speaker to present multiple talks, ensure they are happy with this and provide 
the option to space talks out over the whole conference. Presenting talks is 
very tiring, and long talks or tutorials take a lot of preparation.

Allow at least a week to hear back from speakers. In that time, if you get a 
response from anyone saying they can no longer attend, swap in talks that 
you've put on hold. After a week, you should look to finalise your draft 
schedule. However, you may not have received a response for every talk you've 
accepted. There can be several reasons for this, so rather than discard them, 
leave blanks in your published schedule and fill them in once you do hear back. 
Don't publish speaker names or talk titles in your schedule when the speaker 
hasn't confirmed, as you may find they have submitted talks and then forgotten 
about the conference and planned something else instead. Yes that happens!

Before publishing your schedule contact speakers for talks you haven't accepted, 
and ask whether they would consider holding the talk in reserve. If there really 
is a talk that you need to reject outright do so, but it's better to have 
something than nothing as a backup.

=head2 Publish A Draft Schedule

Now you should publish the first public draft schedule. It will not be the last, 
so don't fret that it isn't quite perfect. Once published, you will get requests 
to switch timeslots, rooms and days, and will even get told that a speaker will 
be unable to present. It happens. If you can accommodate any speaker change 
requests, feel free to do so, but do not cause yourself too many headaches by 
juggling everything all at once.

If you are still awaiting speaker responses after a week of announcing the 
schedule, contact them again with a deadline. After that you'll have to look 
towards some of your reserve talks and speakers to fill any remaining holes in 
the schedule.

The schedule will change several times before the conference and undoubtedly 
everyday during the conference too. It's a pain, but remember not to panic, as 
you will probably have several experienced speakers at your event, some of whom 
will have old talks to hand that can fill a gap. You may even have reserve 
speakers to call on, if they are attending the conference.

The sooner you publish a draft schedule of talks, the sooner attendees who have 
yet to decide can see whether the scheduled talks will appeal to them, and 
whether they may know or would like to meet any of the speakers. Plan to publish 
your first draft at least 2 months before the start of the conference. The 
sooner you can publish a schedule the better, as some managers will not give 
clearance to attend a conference until they see a schedule.

=head2 Deadline for Papers 

If you are planning to publish talks in conference proceeedings, you will need 
to make speakers aware of this when you accept their talks. Not all will submit 
traditional technical papers, so you may want to accept presentation slides too. 
If you need them in a particular format, make sure you let speakers know.

The deadline for receiving papers or slides should be at minimum of a few days 
before you go to press, if you are having conference proceedings as a printed 
booklet. If you are only planning a CD version (or similar) this can be done later, 
but you still need to give yourself time to prepare the material and get it printed 
and burnt. You shouldn't be rushing around preparing conference proceedings a 
few days before the conference.

