=head1 CREDITS & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Z<credits> The original author of the YAPC.pm document, which was the original
inspiration for this book, was Kevin A. Lenzo, the man who instigated the whole
Perl grassroots conference experience with the very first YAPC. Kevin released
the document to CPAN, alongside creating the Yet Another Society (YAS)
organisation. 

A second release was made by Jim Brandt, when the document was taken over by The 
Perl Foundation and was made available on the TPF Google Code repository. After 
the 2006 YAPC::Europe in Birmingham, UK, Barbie rewrote the complete document 
adding many more aspects to all sections of organisation.

However, there are many people beyond the principal authors of that document, 
who have helped to contribute ideas and experiences for this book. All the 
previous organisers of all the YAPCs from all around the world, as well as their 
attendees, have all helped to shape the YAPC/TPC story, whether they knew it or
not!

Many thoughts and suggestions have been gleened from The Conference Surveys
website, which has now been running successfully since 2006 for YAPC::Europe.

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
This book is intended to be a living document of how to organise a (Perl)
conference, so that it can grow with the lessons learnt and new ideas from
future conferences. If you have any ideas and suggestions for improving the
content, please contact Barbie (barbie@cpan.org) with details.

[to be added: photo credits, contributors, technical reviewers]

