=head1 FINAL DEADLINES

=head2 Auction Items Deadline

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
Z<deadlines> The auction (if you are holding one) comprises items donated by
attendees and sponsors. Many publishers will be willing to provide books and
other sponsors may wish to donate items. It is important that you know about
these early. You should arrange to have these delivered to the organisers well
in advance of the auction. If you have the deadline the day before the
conference or the auction, then be prepared for some items to arrive days or
weeks later.

You should aim for a deadline of about one week before the beginning of the 
conference.

=head2 Close of Registration

Close the online registration before the conference. If you are dealing with 
credit card payments, you may be able to close a few days before, but bank 
transfers should close at least 1 week before the beginning of the conference. 
You will need to prepare an attendee list, to aid you in pre-registration, so 
give yourself 3-4 days to prepare this.

Do you have a limit for the number of people who can attend your conference? If 
so, then you will need to watch attendance figures carefully, and make sure you 
warn people before you reach your limit. 

You will need to have a strict deadline for accepting bank transfers, if you are 
allowing payment in that way, as it can take over a week to transfer currencies 
between banks in different countries.

If you haven't reached capacity, then after closing online registrations you may 
be able to allow registration "on the door". Be careful about advertising this 
as you may have too many people walk up and want to pay, with some having 
travelled many miles to get there. If you only have a limit number of places 
they are going to be disappointed. As such, it is better to officially announce 
your capacity slightly less than the real capacity.

Some venues may have to follow strict laws regarding their capacity, and 
exceeding it can generate fines that you will have to pay.

=head2 Final Preparations

There will be many and you will need to be on top of everything else to ensure 
the last minute tasks all get done. Ensure you have volunteers ready to help.

One important final preparation that you must not forgetten, is signage. Both
signposts to your venue, directing people towards the venue from car parks or
crossings, and signs around the venue building. Signs to rooms and toilets
should be a minimum. Wherever possible provide maps of the venue as part of the
conference pack.

See if the venue will allow you to prepare the venue for your attendees the day 
before. Most will be accommodating, and at the very least will allow you to 
prepare signs, tables and rooms the evening before. This is where volunteers 
can be most helpful, as many hands will make light work of all your remaining 
tasks.

