=head1 THE FIRST 12 YEARS

=head2 1999 - How It All Began

Z<first_11_years> The first Yet Another Perl Conference was held in Pittsburgh,
PA at Carnegie Mellon University in 1999, and had about 275 participants. The
event was attended by a small but mighty group of interested and interesting
Perl people, including Larry Wall, who delivered the opening keynote on the
first day of the two-day event. The brain child of Kevin Lenzo.

=head2 2000 - The Art Spreads

The event was such a success that it was repeated, again at Carnegie Mellon 
University, in 2000 and was dubbed YAPC North America 19100, in honour of all 
the "Y2K" concerns of the time.  Attendance was some three hundred and fifty 
people. Once again Kevin Lenzo led the team.

Inspired by the success of the North American event, LE<eacute>on Brocard, Greg 
McCarroll and Jonathan Peterson took it upon themselves to organise the first 
European YAPC in 2000, at the Institute for Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London, 
with the theme "The Art of Perl."  Some two hundred people attended, with many 
volunteers from London.pm and surrounding areas helping out.

=head2 2001 - Security

In 2001, YAPC North America left Pittsburgh for Montreal, where Richard Lafferty 
and Luc St-Louis chaired the conference at the University of Montreal. About 
four hundred and twenty people attended. Once again, local groups turned out in 
numbers to volunteer for any and all tasks.

The European YAPC went into another strong year with YAPC::Europe 2001 at 
Hogeschool Holland, Amsterdam, with a Security theme.  Ann Barcomb, Jouke 
Visser, together with a large and dedicated crew from the Netherlands, created 
an excellent atmosphere for both talks and discussion, raising the overall 
standard once again.

=head2 2002 - Science

In 2002, YAPC::NA headed back below the border to Saint Louis, Missouri.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Munich.pm, the week before Oktoberfest, at Technische 
UniversitE<auml>t ME<uuml>nchen, with a theme of "The Science of Perl". Norbert 
GrE<uuml>ner and crew enticed Larry Wall, Damian Conway and Michael Schwern to 
attend, ending the auction with Damian and Schwern featuring in a bare-chested 
arm-wrestling match!

=head2 2003 - The One With The Two YAPC::NAs

In 2003, YAPC::NA had two vying parties, the first was alternatively titled 
YAPC::Canada and held in Ottawa, Ontario, while the second was held in Boca 
Raton, Florida. The Florida event was organised by Kevin Meltzer and Jeff Bisbee.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Paris.pm at the Conservatoire National des Arts et 
ME<eacute>tiers (CNAM) in Paris. David Landgren, Philippe 'BooK' Bruhat and crew 
held a very vibrant conference with Mark Jason Dominus managing to hold court in 
the main room for all of day one.

=head2 2004 - Fun And Profit

Heading back towards the northern states, the 2004 YAPC::NA was held in Buffalo, 
New York. Jim Brandt and team hosted the event at the University at Buffalo and 
introduced a 'Poster BOF'!

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Belfast.pm (led by Karen Pauley, Marty Pauley and
Tony Bowden) in Northern Ireland, UK. As with London before them, they broke away
from the education establishments and hosted the event in a converted church,
now know as Squires.

=head2 2005 - Perl Everywhere

For 2005, YAPC::NA again headed north of the border and was successfully hosted 
by Toronto.pm (led by Richard Dice). The Conference Dinner and Auction was held
aboard a paddle steamer, that allowed attendees to relax for an evening and
enjoy the Toronto skyline from the water.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Braga.pm in northern Portugal, at University of 
Minho, Braga. JosE<eacute> Castro and Alberto Simoes worked hard to create a 
great conference. They included the first all attendees Conference Dinner for a 
YAPC::Europe conference, which also featured the unusual Beers Of The World BOF.

=head2 2006 - Accessible Perl

For 2006, YAPC::NA was hosted by Chicago.pm, and organised with great success by 
Josh McAdams and Pete Krawczyk. The Conference Dinner and Auction were held in a 
games arcade. The auction for this year introduced, quite successfully, a silent 
auction. This meant all the regular auction items (mostly books), could be 
auctioned off quickly and left plenty of time for the fun stuff.

YAPC::Europe was hosted by Birmingham.pm once again in the UK, at a concert 
venue, The CBSO Centre, with a theme of "The Accessibility of Perl". Barbie, Jon 
Allen, Steve Pitchford and Brian McCauley, together with their onsite crew 
helped to create yet another successful event, introducing an expo feature to 
the European conferences similar to the Chicago event. The event was notable for 
the fact it was publicly 3 years in the making, and featured a movie, "The 
Birmingham Job" as part of the bid submission to host the event. Final role call 
was 228 attendees.

Interesting aside: Chicago and Birmingham are also twinned-cities.

=head2 2007 - Social Perl

In 2007, YAPC::NA headed the furthest west it had ever been, in Houston, with
both Houston.pm and BrazosValley.pm co-organising the event, led by Jeremy
Fluhmann. Despite the humidity tiring everyone out, the conference was very well
received and the games arcade seem to go down VERY well :)

In Europe, YAPC::Europe headed to Austria, as hosted by Vienna.pm, led by Thomas
Klausner. Vienna is a city full of sights to see, and the conference itself
managed to attract some illuminating speakers too, including Larry, Damian and
Mark-Jason Dominus. The event also introduced the idea of full day workshops and
hackathons, with Parrot, Perl 6 and POE all getting their own dedicated hacker
rooms.

=head2 2008 - Beautiful Perl

After taking on the conference for 2006, Chicago once again hosted YAPC::NA 
2008, with the team once again led by Josh McAdams and Pete Krawczyk.
As for 2006, the breakfast buffet (as well morning and afternoon breaks) 
were a wonderful addition to keep everyone going throughout the day.

YAPC::Europe was Scandinavian bound, with the event being hosted by 
Copenhagen.pm, featuring the organising team of Jonas B. Nielsen, Lars
Thegler and Anton Berezin. The lunch bags went down very well, which was just
as well as the city was rather expensive for many this year.

=head2 2009 - Corporate Perl

Celebrating ten years, although it was the 11th YAPC, YAPC::NA returned to 
Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University, now holding the honour of host the 
event 3 times. However for this year, Dan Wright took on the role of
organising team leader.

YAPC::Europe went to Portugal again for 2009, and although it was located in 
Lisbon this time around, the familiar organisers of Jose, Alberto and Joana were 
behind it all. The event featured a host of talks and tutorials, and was the 
first to have a successful Partner Programme.

=head2 2010 - The Renaissance of Perl

YAPC::NA headed into middle America for the first time, being held very
successfully in Columbus, Ohio, with Heath Blair and Rob Kinyon leading the
team.

YAPC::Europe headed to Pisa, Italy, and featured the first time the White Camel
Awards were announced and presented outside of the OSCON event in America.
The team featured Gianni Ceccarelli, Michele Beltramei, Giuseppe D'Angelo,
Aldo Calpini and Hakim Cassimally.

=head2 2011 - Modern Perl

For 2011, YAPC::NA took place in the picturesque location of Ashville, North
Carolina. The organising team was led by veteran Perl event organiser Chris
Prather, together with Chris Nehren and Mathew Horsfall.

The Europeans meanwhile moved to the most Eastern city ever to hold a
YAPC::Europe, to Riga in Latvia. The conference was organized fully remotely by
the members of Moscow.pm living in Amsterdam (Andrew Shitov), Moscow (Alex
Kapranov) and Copenhagen (Dmitry Karasik). 278 people, incuding Larry Wall and
Damian Conway, attended the conference.

