=head1 ORGANISATIONAL MAILING LISTS

Z<mailing_lists> You should consider setting up at least two mailing lists.

The first should be purely for the team of organisers, and should be a 
completely closed list, where you can discuss ideas privately away from both the 
attending public and even your own Perl Monger user group. The latter is 
important as you should be aware that any matters you discuss, particularly 
around budget, should not be disclosed. It can create unnecessary headaches 
trying to justify your actions, while still trying to talk to sponsors and 
suppliers.

The second should be a publicly accessible list, that all the organisers are 
subscribed to, which can be used as the first point of call for anyone wanting 
to contact you. Often this is just a simple email address (e.g. 
organisers@our-conference.org). It also needs to be an address that you can 
promote as a contact address on your website and in any promotional material.

Having a second list helps to separate general inquires from ongoing 
conference planning threads. It is very useful when people know one member of 
the organisation team very well, and for whatever reason that person is not able 
to respond.

You may also wish to have further mailing addresses, such as for submitting 
talks, but this is entirely up to you.

If you set up a mailing list for public use, ensure that there is no automated 
responder attached to it. Automated responses from an RT ticket system might be 
acceptable to geeks, but corporate contacts will likely think something is 
broken or worse consider your communication extremely unprofessional, and decide 
not to continue discussing arrangements with you. 

Respond to any public requests as promptly as possible, regardless of whether 
the person is within the Perl community or not. They may forward emails to 
others and a prompt, professional response will put you in a good light.

