=head1 YAPCS, WORKSHOPS & HACKATHONS

Z<other_events> Although the first YAPC was in 1999, ten years later in 2009 we now had 5 YAPC 
specific conferences (YAPC::NA, YAPC::Europe, YAPC::Asia, YAPC::Brazil and 
YAPC::Russia), with OSDCs now also making their mark (Australia, Israel, 
France).

The German Perl Workshop is recognised as the first workshop (17-19 February 
1999) dedicated specifically to Perl, and was organised mainly to attract German 
language speakers, although it does have the occasional English language 
presentation too. However, it started a trend that has since continued across 
Europe, where the local country has organised their own workshops, with 
presentations predominantly in their own language. This has the benefit of 
attracting attendees to the community who don't speak English, and/or who are 
unable to attend a YAPC.

Workshops and Hackathons now feature across the world, and while the native 
language may have instigated some, many now are more about building on national 
community support, providing a cheap way for students and self-funded 
individuals to attend training, as well as company funded individuals too.

Workshops are typically 1 or 2 day events, with usually 1 or 2 tracks. In some 
cases an additional specialist training tutorial may feature, but these usually 
only happen at the larger workshops.  The German Perl Workshop is still a 3 day 
event, but it only has one track and limits its attendance to just 200 people. 
Most workshops happen over a weekend, so that those attendees that are 
restricted by their working hours, can still attend without their employer's 
support. Likewise for students who might otherwise have educational commitments 
that they cannot avoid.

Hackathons are traditionally a more low-key event, with a very limited number of 
places. They typically have a single focus, such as Perl 6, Parrot or Quality 
Assurance (QA), and are aimed at attracting more experienced programmers, with 
often a very high degree of technical input.

Both Workshops & Hackathons are a great way to learn how to put together a YAPC, 
as in many respects there are common organisational requirements (venue, 
accommodation, food, etc). However, it isn't necessary for you to have done 
something else before bidding for a YAPC, it just gives you some idea of what is 
involved.

