=head1 PLAN YOUR PROJECT

Z<project_plan> It cannot be emphasised enough how important a project plan is.
A year before your event, you will need to start several tasks at once, and
managing them efficiently is a necessity. Organising a conference requires you
to establish priorities all the time, and having a project plan will better
identify those tasks which fall on your critical path.

Your first priorities in your project plan should focus on the following:

=over

=item * Establish Your Team

=item * Book The Venue

=item * Prepare Your Sponsorship Pack

=back

Everything else you can deal with later, but these three will need to be 
completed very quickly. Once you have these in hand you can then turn your 
attentions to the following:

=over

=item * The Venue (Wifi, Power, Projectors, Catering, etc)

=item * Sponsorship

=item * Insurance

=item * Promotion

=item * Accommodation

=item * Speakers (Call For Papers, Scheduling)

=item * Attendees (Registration, Directions)

=back

Then that's it. The rest is really gravy -- quite a bit of important gravy -- 
but just gravy. When you are planning a conference, keep this list in mind. These
are your "big rocks" and if you are spending a lot of time on something and one
of these is not covered, you'll need to reconsider your priorities. On the flip 
side, if you have all of these in place, don't stress too much if something else 
falls through.

For your first team meeting you'll need to cover all of the above topics, and 
ensure that at least one person is going to be responsible for each area.

=head2 Your Project Plan

Write a project plan. This is a major project you are undertaking, and you need 
to plan it carefully. Update the project plan regularly, as it will help you 
keep tabs on who is doing what and how they are progressing. It can help you 
decide who should be handed a future task based on how well that person 
completes their prior tasks.

You don't need fancy software, a simple spreadsheet or pen and paper will work 
fine. Just keep a record of who is doing what and all approaching deadlines. 

A project plan is very useful to keeping you aware of deadlines, and highlight 
the critical path of tasks that have the potential to delay the whole project if 
they are not kept on course. Make sure that everyone is aware of deadlines. They 
need to know when they shouldn't pester someone, when that person is busy trying 
to complete an important task.

=head2 Allocating Tasks

Before everyone heads off with their favourite task, take some time to properly 
define all the tasks required. Break larger ones down to smaller bitesize chunks 
that could be handed to several different people if the need arises. Review the 
tasks to ensure you understand what is expected of them and give estimates for 
time and effort involved.

Once you've identify every task (or at least the initial tasks to get you 
started), you'll need to start allocating people to them. Some people may be 
obvious choices while others may need to find their feet. Don't over burden 
anyone, especially at this stage, as it's more important to get things started 
and moving.

Emphasise to your team that life throws curve-balls every now and then, and that 
it isn't a problem to say that they don't have time to complete a task, 
providing they tell you as soon as possible. Not everyone will listen, and you 
may find some team members have a change in personal priorities, putting an 
important task to one side without telling anyone. Having regular catch-up 
meetings usually help to spot these situtaions.

Weekly updates often also help to identify where problem areas might need 
attention, as some team members might leave it until the last minute to complete 
their tasks.

Regularly review how team members are coping with tasks, as when it comes to 
allocating tasks in the later planning stages, you'll need to ensure that high 
priority tasks are given to people you can rely on to complete the task 
promptly.

=head2 Meetings

If possible, try and arrange regular face to face planning meetings, especially 
for the local crew, that will need to be assigned tasks that require leg work 
around the venue and local area. Aim to have at least monthly meetings, with 
regular weekly catch ups on IRC, mailing lists, video conferencing systems
(e.g. Skype, FaceTime or Zoom) or other communication mediums.

It is VERY important to have these meetings and follow up sessions, so 
that everyone knows the current status of the project. If anyone has been 
assigned a task and hasn't had time to deal with it, you'll need to know and 
reassign if necessary. You will have to reassign occasionally, but hopefully not 
too often.

Set an agenda ahead of the planning meetings and mail it, together with the 
outstanding task list, to all those involved at least a few days before hand to 
give everyone a chance to follow up anything they have forgotten. You will need 
to remind people of their tasks, as not everyone will be as passionate about 
conference organisation as you are.

Meetings are not just about the allocation or completion of tasks, they are also 
about bringing your team together. Share ideas, brainstorm problems, motivate 
and praise. Whether they admit it or not, every team member, including yourself, 
likes to feel appreciated and feel like they are included in discussions.

You may find you have a quiet team member who is very good at spotting potential 
issues before they become a problem, or maybe a team member who finds they have 
a previously undiscovered talent. At this early stage try and be as inclusive as 
possible, and let the team members settle into their roles. As time progresses 
you'll see who needs help and who can be trusted with high risk tasks.

Take the opportunity at meetings to make sure everyone understands a particular 
task. If there is any confusion, textual communictation (via IRC or email) can
add to the misunderstandings. Sitting down face to face, even as an ad-hoc
one-to-one meeting with a team member, may be enough to resolve any issues.
Most of all don't be afraid to ask. This goes for your team members as well as
you.

