=head1 PROMOTION

12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
Z<promotion> Six months before the event, possibly sooner, you need to start
planning how you are going to promote the event. Newsletters and announcements
all need to appear on your website, but you need to decide where else you should
post these and any other updates.

Some specific places online that you can approach include:

=over

=item * YAPC/YEF conference websites

=item * post as a Perl Blogs user

=item * post on a personal blog associated with the Iron Man Perl Planet

=item * Perl Monks news postings

=item * YAPC/YEF conference mailing lists

=item * PM Group and local Perl group mailing lists

=item * Local and national Linux/Open Source group mailing lists

=item * National IT/Open Source printed media

=back

In addition, there are now a plethora of social media and micro-blogging
networks available for you to get the word out. Signup to at least the
following, and if appropriate create a special conference account:

=over

=item * Facebook

=item * LinkedIn

=item * Twitter

=item * Instagram

=item * Flickr

=back

On Facebook there is already a Perl Mongers user group which currently 
promotes various Perl events, covering international and national conferences,
workshops and large technical events.

However, first you need to think about what you need to say. Promotion is both a 
chance to tell people the event exists and a means to provide details to the 
potential attendees, speakers and sponsors about how you are progressing with 
the organisation. However, the various outlets above don't necessarily need a 
big newsletter or the full announcements. Sometimes, a brief one line post with 
a link to the content on your website is enough.

