=head1 INVITE SPEAKERS

Z<speakers_invite>

=head2 Invite Keynote Speakers

Approach a few keynote speakers who you would like to invite. Based on your 
budget, let them know whether you would be able to fund all or part of their 
travel and accommodation expenses. If they or their company is able to fund 
them, this will give you more flexibility for funding for the other speakers you 
have invited.

If the speaker has given a keynote before, you may want to ask prior organisers 
about what terms they had. It might enable you to prepare your introductory 
letter if you've never had contact with the speaker before.

Always ask keynote speakers to confirm their attendance as soon as possible. 
Advertising a high profile speaker's attendance is good promotion for your 
event. They can encourage sponsors, speakers and attendees alike to become 
involved in your event.

=head2 Invite Notable Speakers

Although some notable speakers may need more lead time, you should invite some 
of the speakers you would like to attend your conference at least 6 months 
before your conference. These speakers don't necessarily have to be your keynote 
speakers, but can include speakers you think would be a valuable addition to 
your schedule.

Knowing who to invite and whether you can afford them largely depends on your 
budget. Ask potential speakers for a rough guide to their travel expenses and 
see what difference it makes to your budget. In some case speakers may be 
willing to offset their expenses by running training courses or getting support 
from their company.

Some speakers are willing to provide training courses to local companies before 
or after the conference, to help cover their expenses. While this is something 
you can look into, do not let it distract you from other tasks. If possible ask 
local Perl and Linux user groups whether their company would be interested in 
some dedicated training.

Once you can make definite plans to invite a speaker, always ask them to confirm 
their attendance, as it worth advertising to sponsors and potential attendees.

