=head1 FIND SPONSORS

Z<sponsorship>

Sponsorship is likely to be your biggest source of income for your event. While 
registration fees will cover a good portion of costs, you will need to find 
sponsors both big and small to help cover the remaining costs.

While some organisations and businesses are often very sympathetic to the aims 
of a YAPC Conference, some will also need convincing. Those who have either 
sponsored a conference previously, or have a sponsorship programme may well be 
your first priority. After that, look for companies that have invested in Perl 
for projects and jobs, as they may also be willing to help.

Although it has been suggested several times, there isn't a reliable sponsor 
contact list. However, previous organisers may still be able to help. Contact 
previous organisers to get an idea of which companies to target, as well as 
their thoughts on who is likely to be a lot of hassle for little or no reward.

=head2 Sponsorship Levels

Before approaching your prospective sponsors, you'll need to decide what levels 
of sponsorship you will provide and what you will include in the package for 
each level.

Typically there are 4 tiers of sponsorship. From top to bottom each sponsor 
level gets a decreasing amount of exposure. You will need to establish what 
you will offer at each level. All levels should have some degree of recognition 
in terms of a logo on your website, name mentioned in the press releases and 
such like. However, what additional benefits you apply is largely covered either 
by what you can offer, or simply on the monetary value that a sponsor provides.

While small contributions are still valuable to you, yout focus should be on 
large cash donations. The split between levels is down to you and how you plan 
to cover your budget. When you approach a sponsor try and gauge the level you 
expect them to be at and tone your proposition accordingly. For example, a 
corporate sponsor may want to ensure they have a higher profile by being a top 
sponsor, so open your proposition with the fact that you consider them to be a 
significant sponsor. You can always negotiate downwards, but rarely upwards.

You should also encourage local sponsors, but remember that they may not be able 
to contribute a large monetary donation. They may be able to provide something 
of considerable value to your budget (e.g. free loan of technical equipment), so 
it can be worth giving them an appropriate level of sponsorship that represents 
the time and materials they have contributed.

Also consider local venues, such as bars or restaurants. Remember you could be 
directing several hundred people towards somewhere to eat and drink in the 
evening.

=head2 Sponsorship Types

=head3 Corporate Sponsors

These are the big guns for conference sponsorship. Many already sponsor IT 
conferences around the world, so this can both be a stumbling block and a way 
in. If a corporate sponsor already supports open source conferences, then you 
either find that they are sympathetic to your ideals and aims and the process is 
relatively easy, or you need to justify what additional benefit they will get in 
sponsoring you.

This can be hard work, but worth pursuing, as they are often able to sponsor for 
large monetary donations and can make your organising and budget a lot easier to 
work with.

Note that for corporations, a big sponsorship deal is just as much work for them 
to approve as a small one, so don't be afraid to aim high.

=head3 International Sponsors

These sponsors have offices in multiple locations around the world or promote 
their product internationally, and can see a benefit that the association with 
an international conference can bring. Many recruit in the kind of locations 
that many attendees are likely to be arriving from, so they have an easy access 
to promote themselves to a target audience.

These sponsors are not necessarily at the same level as your corporate sponsors, 
but are often have a sponsorship or marketing budget that they would use to make 
donations.

=head3 National Sponsors

National sponsors typically only have offices in the country where the 
conference is being held. They sponsor the event as a means to raise their own 
profile or as a thank you to the Perl community for the code base they have been 
using to create their own works.

They often have a small budget, so don't expect them to be a big sponsor. 
However, a few national sponsors can often match the donation of a large 
corporate sponsor.

=head3 Local Sponsors

Local sponsors are those found in the city where your event is taking place. 
Often these may be web design shops, print shops, bars, restaurants and other 
small businesses. Some may have a very small budget with which they can be cash 
sponsor, but some may be willing to offer reductions in their services (tshirt, 
leaflet or booklet printing) in return for promoting them. 

Remeber your website is likely to get a high Google ranking compared to their 
own website, so it can help raise their web profile if that is important to 
them.

=head3 Media Sponsors

Media sponsors mostly fall into two categories; Book Publishers and Magazine 
Publishers. The former usually provides books that you can use in your auction, 
while the latter will promote you to their readership and occasionally include 
articles before the event to give you even more exposure.

=head3 Community Sponsors

Sponsorship from the community varies considerably. Some individuals are willing 
to donate small sums to help you out, while others can offer their time and 
services to help you. These kinds of sponsors will approach you, rather than you 
having to look for them, so providing a sponsorship pack is often enough to 
encourage this type of sponsor.

=head2 The Sponsorship Pack

Sponsorship is used to lower the cost of participation and raise the quality of 
what you can offer during the event, in return for good will, positive company 
recognition and promotion, and the ability for the company to tap into a large 
skill set and potentially recruit staff. What the company gets back is very 
important, they will not sponsor you for nothing in return. Prepare a 
sponsorship pack to highlight some of the great positives that a company can get 
out of sponsoring your event.

You will need to explain what you are able to provide for sponsors and more 
importantly what you expect of them. Part of this might be to list what items 
you might be willing to allow sponsors to be associated with, e.g. Room Name, 
Lunch, T-shirts, Conference Dinner, Speaker Sponsorship, etc.

You should also describe what levels of sponsorship you expect, with appropriate 
monetary values, and what types of items you would include. As an example, the 
table below describes the sponsorship levels of the Italian Perl Workshop for 
2009, and provides a good outline of what could be is required and provided at 
each level of sponsorship.

=begin table Italian Perl Workshop Example

=headrow

=row

=cell 

=cell Supporter (E<euro>150)

=cell Silver (E<euro>300)

=cell Gold (E<euro>600)

=cell Platinum (E<euro>1200)

=cell Diamond (E<euro>2500)

=bodyrows

=row

=cell Workshop gadgets (T-shirt, ...)

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=row

=cell Company name and logo on the Web page, with indication of the level of 
sponsorship

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=row

=cell Company name and logo in the Final Program, and in all press releases, 
with indication of the level of sponsorship

=cell 

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=row

=cell One poster or company banner in the conference rooms and in the common 
area

=cell 

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=cell Yes

=row

=cell Introduction of the company, during the Workshop

=cell 

=cell 

=cell 

=cell 10 min

=cell 20 min

=row

=cell paid places at the attendees' dinner

=cell 

=cell 1

=cell 2

=cell 3

=cell 4

=end table

In the above example, the organisers were only accepting sponsorship donations 
as part of the overall conference costs. However, for larger sponsors it often 
does make a difference if they can be associated with something specific. Naming 
a room after a sponsor, or associating them with the Conference Dinner are 
typical examples for sponsors who make very large donations.

If you feel comfortable with it, may also allow larger corporate sponsors a time 
slot in your schedule to present a talk about themselves. As many attendees 
could potentially be turned off by a blatant market talk, encourage the sponsor 
too give a technical weighted talk about themselves or their product. Most of 
the attendees are developers, and do not make decisions for their company, but 
they may have influence in suggesting a particular company.

Some companies may wish to be involved in a Job Fair. Several YAPCs now feature 
this as way to encourage additional smaller sponsorship. Many international and 
nation business may wish to recruit IT developers, and you event may offer a 
great incentive to talk to several people atonce.

For large corporate sponsors you may also wish to provide free tickets to the 
event for their staff. Perhaps four places for top level sponsors and two places 
for second level sponsors. You could also offer places on any special classes 
being held before and after your event with professional trainers.

You can probably think of other incentives for sponsors, but make sure you 
clearly define the packages available, ensuring the bigger the package the more 
benefits the sponsors will receive.

=head2 Suggested Levels

The naming of levels is encouraged, but use names that imply incremental 
importance. Suggested levels would be:

=over

=item * Platinum

=item * Gold

=item * Silver

=item * Bronze

=back

You will often find these used at conferences, as they are a clear indicator of 
the increasing sponsorship donation. Remember you are promoting a professional 
conference so don't get too carried away with the naming. If a level isn't clear 
to a sponsor they will likely not feel that they are not going to get the 
benefits you are offering.

=head2 Sponsorship Brouchure

For YAPC::Europe 2006 in Birmingham, the organisers produced a brochure for 
sponsors, which was available as a PDF. Initial contact with sponsors would 
include the brochure, and if a positive response was received from a sponsor, a 
contract document would then be sent.

Your brochure should include detailed explanations of the packages for each 
sponsorship level. Clearly outline what benefits you will offer, and what 
monetary donations would expect to receive at each level. Provide a range rather 
than a specific amount, with the bottom value being the sum you would expect for 
that level of sponsorship. Some may pay more, but most will want to get the most 
for as minimum possible.

You also need to include details about who you are, and what the event means to 
the community. Some sponsors may never have heard of Perl or you, so they will 
want some background to reassure them. Many larger sponsors may also want to get 
an idea of the numbers and the types of people attending your conference. Take a 
look at the YAPC Conference Surveys and glean as much information as you can to 
support you.

=head2 Sponsorship Contract

Establishing a written contract between you and the sponsor is extremely 
important. Remember you are a grassroots conference, and that you are dealing 
with large corporations. The person you are dealing with needs to provide 
guarantees to their superiors that their donation is to be used responsibly.  
The contract should outline the expectations of both parties.

The original brochure and contract agreement used by Birmingham.pm, are now 
available as templates for free download. See the Resources section in APPENDIX 
A.

=head2 Approaching Sponsors

You can approach sponsors as soon as you've won the bid, but you are likely to 
get a better response if you are able to show that you have a venue and dates 
already scheduled. When contacting a sponsor, include your sponsorship pack so 
that prospective sponsors understand what they are sponsoring. Some low-key 
sponsors are happy to sponsor open source conferences as a way of saying thank 
you to the community for providing the software they use. Major corporations and 
large businesses, however, typically have a marketing team that deal with 
sponsorship, who may not know anything about open source, or the fact that they 
use it as a major part of their business.

Trying to find a list of sponsors to approach can be extremely daunting. 
However, remember that previous organisers have already been there. Talk to 
them, and get contact information, and approach the contacts as soon as you can. 
Also bear in mind that many Perl Mongers work for some of these big names, so it 
might not be as daunting as you first think.

It may be beneficial to call on contacts within local and national 
organisations, who you think might be sympathetic to your event. Particularly if 
you know they use Perl and may be considering hiring soon.

Once you have a brochure and website online, you are in a better position to 
promote your sponsorship opportunities. Use social netowrking sites to get the 
word out to anyone who may have contacts that could help you. Post on Twitter, 
LinkedIn, Facebook and any suitable site that may increase your exposure.

We'll cover more on social networking and promotion in more depth in the next 
chapter, under the section Communications.

=head2 Dealing With Sponsors

If a business has a marketing department that handles sponsorship, typically 
they will plan events a year or more in advance. If they are interested in 
sponsoring you, then getting to the right people early can ensure you get an 
early commitment.

You may already know of local, national or even international businesses that 
use Perl, but have never sponsored a YAPC before. Sometimes there might be a 
good reason for this, but it may also be because they have never been 
approached. Remember that in many cases, the person who makes sponsor decisions 
is unlikely to be a developer or even a technical user. Explain who you are and 
why you are approaching them. If you know they use Perl, say so. The person you 
are talking to may not know how the underlying business works and not understand 
why you are contacting them.

Sponsors can sign up within days of you initially asking them, while others may 
wait right up until a few days before the conference. Be prepare to respond 
quickly to any requests for further information. Have invoices prepared, so that 
you can supply accounts departments with them promptly. Many large businesses 
work on a 30-day lead time between receiving an invoice and paying it. The 
earlier they start processing, the sooner you have funds to pay deposits with.

Once you have a rapport with your sponsors, keep up the relationship. Give them 
regular feedback of how things are progressing with their sponsorship, remind 
them of any key dates for sending you materials when deadlines are approaching, 
giving them time to contact the appropriate department and people should they 
need to.

