=head1 Structure of This Book

Z<structure> The chapters in this book are meant to follow the timeline from the 
initial idea through to the tying up of any loose ends of your conference or event.

=over 

=item * Chapter 1 : THE INTRODUCTION

An introduction to the scope and intent of this book.

=item * Chapter 2 : THE PROPOSAL

The preparation of a proposal can take place months (even years for some) before 
the actual event. The chapter aims to cover the essential parts of organising 
that you will need to ensure are completed for your proposal.

=item * Chapter 3 : THE PREPARATION (the First Six Months)

The six month period roughly twelve to six months before the event, is often the 
most daunting. This chapter covers the tasks you'll need to start immediately 
after winning the bid, including the topics regarding the venue, communication,
promotion and sponsorship.

=item * Chapter 4 : THE PREPARATION (the Last Six Months)

In the six months immediately prior to your event, your event promotion, 
including regular announcements, as well as many other the final preparations
all need to be in hand. You also need to be attracting speakers and attendees
to your event.

=item * Chapter 4 : THE EVENT

During the event itself ensure everything runs smoothly. Keeping all your
sponsors, speakers and attendees happy, is tough, but worth it in the end.

=item * Chapter 5 : THE AFTERMATH

What happens after the event? Remember it's important to say thank you, and 
tie up any loose ends.

=item * Chapter 6 : THE HISTORY

A look back at the first 11 years of YAPCs, providing some background to YAPC 
and other Perl events.

=item * Appendix A : RESOURCES

References and resources that may be useful for you while organising your event.

=item * Appendix B : CODE OF CONDUCT

An example Code of Conduct. In recent years, it has become important for some
events to establish what is acceptable at their event. Events should be
inclusive and safe environments to discuss ideas, present or even be a part
of the audience.

created by the organisers of YAPC::NA 2011.

=back

At the beginning of each chapter we feature a suggested timeline of events. 
These highlight announcements and key organisational activities that need to be 
covered during a particular phase of your event. Keep these in mind when 
trying to ensure that all major tasks are covered.

