=head1 ESTABLISH YOUR TEAM

Z<team_building> No-one can organise a YAPC on their own. You don't need a big team, but many 
hands make light work :) While you may have a core team, you should look to 
recruit others who can help with some of the smaller tasks. That's not 
to say that you need 20 or so people. Most groups usually have two to four key 
individuals that make the decisions and a few more that help with specific 
tasks.

Also, remember that not everyone in your team needs to be local. Many tasks can 
be performed remotely, even in another country, as there is plenty of online 
communication required via email and websites.

Within the team, each person needs to be responsible for at least one 
significant role. They may be responsible for more than one, but ensure you 
spread the load. If one person gets allocated responsiblity for the most 
time-consuming roles, you are likely to either fall behind or lose that person's 
input completely if they feel like they've been stitched up.

=head2 Conference Planning Team and Responsibilities

=head3 The Primary Organizer

This document uses the familiar 'you' in many cases when referring to tasks. 
However, if you are the primary organizer, this really means you and your team. 
Pulling off a YAPC really requires that you have a team of dedicated people 
helping you.

If you don't have a team of helpers, you really need to get one. Ask the members 
of your local Perl Mongers group if they can get involved. You may also find 
others further afield that may be willing to help if you advertise. As the event 
approaches, your goal is to have no tasks assigned to you (or very few). That 
way, you can jump in and help with whatever needs attention without abandoning 
something. You need to be the project manager, directing the tasks and reviewing 
the work, rather than have anything that has a high demand on your attention. 
Just coordinating things will take up plenty of your time.

YAPC in Buffalo had 4 coordinators in the main group working throughout the 
planning process and about 20+ volunteers during the conference. In Toronto 
about 20 people (nearly all of the Toronto.pm members) helped with planning and 
execution. Remember, many hands make light work (as long as you are coordinating 
and the hands know what to do).

Above all, don't be a martyr. This event should be fun for you, your team, and 
everyone else involved.

=head3 Website Administrator

This role is really just to ensure that someone is responsible for getting your 
website online, and keeping the content updated. See the section Design Your 
Website, for further details required of this role.

=head3 Publicity Officer

This should either be someone well known within your team in the Perl community, 
or someone who is good with public relations. This means the focus from the 
outside world is on one person to ask questions of, while the other members of 
the team are busy with other tasks. This is not to say that the other members of 
the team shouldn't help out, but having one person who distributes all the press 
releases and promotes them in a printed and online form, helps to keep 
continuity.

Avoid using the same person in your team to act as publicity officer AND as 
sponsor liaison. This role can be very time consuming and trying to answer 
questions from all sides can be very draining.

=head3 Speaker Liaison

Someone from your team needs to handle all the email communication between 
yourselves and speakers. Many speakers will need hand holding to give you the 
right information, while others are old hands and will provide everything you 
need in the first email. Once you decide a schedule, you'll need to ensure that 
speakers are happy to speak and are still planning to attend.

Avoid using the same person in your team to act as speaker liaison AND as 
sponsor liaison. This role can often work well together with the publicity 
officer.

=head3 Sponsor Liaison

After initial contact with sponsors, you will need someone to look after all 
their requirements. Even though you may not have many sponsors, they will be 
demanding of your time. Keep sponsors up to date of progress every so often, so 
they know you haven't forgotten them. Take the opportunity to remind them of 
important dates (especially parcel delivery deadlines) in good time (at least a 
week), so that if they have forgotten, they have a chance to follow up 
straight-away.

Avoid using the same person in your team to act as sponsor liaison AND as 
publicity officer. Again this can be an extremely time consuming role, 
especially as the conference draws closer. Knowledge of logistics is definitely 
an added bonus.

=head3 Venue Liaison

At least one person should be a point of contact with the venue. Over time this 
may end up being more than one person, as specific responsibilities may require 
them to contact the venue for specific information. However, you should have at 
least a primary contact who deals with the contract negotiation. Your venue 
liaison will likely need to ensure that Wifi, power, catering, etc are all 
planned and invoiced well in advance.

=head3 Accommodation Liaison

Once you have a designated primary conference hotel, like the venue liaison, 
someone will need to be a point of contact for negotiating deals. While the 
whole team needs to agree deals, having one person contact hotels and initiate 
conversations ensures you have a consistent presence.

In some cases you may not be able to arrange a deal, but at the very least try 
to research costs and types of accommodation, so that you can advertise them to 
the attendees as soon as possible. If your venue is a hotel, the Venue Liaison 
can double up with this role.

=head3 Network Administrator

You will need internet access at the venue. If you don't, you aren't likely to 
get a good response from the speakers or the attendees. This person usually 
doubles as venue liaison, as much of the discussion and site visits will be 
around arranging network access.

Knowledge of networking is really needed here. If anyone in your local user 
group, or Linux user group, is willing to help with this, it will make life much 
easier for you.

=head2 The Runners

If you have anyone in your team that is willing to help, but either doesn't have 
the time or the ability to take on a major responsibility, you can still use 
them. There are lots of activities where you will need someone to help with 
small tasks. Many of these people will become invaluable immediately before and 
during the event, so don't be afraid to ask them for help.

