=head1 REVIEW TRANSPORT FACILITIES

Z<transport>

How are you expecting the attendees to get to the conference and depart? Do you 
have an international airport within easy reach of the city? If not, are there 
adequate road or rail transport links from the airport to your town/city? Many 
attendees may be travelling from abroad, and making them travel long distances 
to get to you may discourage them from attending.

Road (buses & taxis) and rail links should be suitable to enable attendees to 
both reach their accommodation and the venue. Highlight all the major transport 
hubs in the area, so attendees can plan cheaper travel options if they wish. For 
example, London to Birmingham can be via train or coach, with the train taking 
90 minutes and costs E<pound>20-E<pound>40, while a coach takes 2-3 hours and 
costs E<pound>8-E<pound>15.

You'll need to familiarise yourselves with the directions to/from nearby 
airports. If you are fortunate enough to have an international airport close by, 
this may make your job slightly easier. However if the nearest international 
airport is some distance away, you will need to direct travellers how to get 
from the airport to your town/city. For YAPC::Europe 2005 in Braga, the local 
airport was Oporto, which had a rail link, but still took some time to reach 
Braga. The better and cheaper option for many was to take a taxi as a group and 
split the fare.

Once attendees have arrived in your town/city, how do they get to their hotel 
and the venue? Ensure that you are familiar with the local transport 
infrastructure. Investigate taxi costs (airport E<8594> hotel, hotel E<8594> 
venue) and whether bus/metro/train travel cards are available (per day or per 
week. For example, Vienna had a 72 hour card that also provided discounts to 
local tourist attractions and museums.

Some of your attendees may be close enough for them to drive. Are there suitable 
parking facilities at the venue? If special parking permits are required, 
investigate how much they will cost.

