=head1 RESEARCH YOUR VENUE

Z<venue_research>

Before you think about anything to do with the organizing of an open source 
conference, there is one important thing you need to remember throughout. The
conference is a means to bring together like minded souls, from all walks of 
life, to meet and learn. "All walks of life" is what you need to remember. We 
are all very different people and you'll need to remind yourself occasionally, 
that you're not only organising a conference to get your friends to come visit 
you, but also to bring new people into the community from many diverse 
backgrounds and cultures. You'll need to make them feel welcome, as well as be 
able to provide them with a good experience of the community, so that they stay 
involved and contribute long after the conference is over. Try and be as 
inclusive as possible, by thinking about accessibility and dietary 
requirements. You may not be able to accommodate everyone, but at least if 
you can consider your options, your attendees will thank you for it later.

=head2 Finding A Venue

This should be your highest priority before even considering making a bid to 
host a conference. Without the venue, you don't have a conference. However, 
that doesn't necessarily mean you need to have a venue booked before making the
bid. Do consider all the possible venues available to you. Being able to submit
your bid with a primary choice and one or two backup plans, shows you are 
prepared in the event that your first choice is not available.

In many countries and cities you may be able to make use of educational 
facilities, which have been a stable source of ready made infrastructure for 
many past open source conferences. This can include universities, technical 
colleges or other schools. In the UK, and possibly other countries, many schools 
fall under the guidance of an LEA (Local Education Authority), which means you 
will have to talk to local government before being able to use the facilities. 
Many senior schools, technical colleges and universities are self funded, and 
you may just need to contact the institution directly. Wherever possible try and 
find someone (in the team or that you know well) that can help negotiate between 
you and the education establishment, as initial informal negotiations may avail 
you of facilities without the need for bureaucracy.

Many cities also have existing conference facilities, such as hotels, 
theatres, libraries, concert venues, and conference halls. Church halls, 
voluntary groups, training centres and large businesses may also have facilities 
that are suitable. It is worth investigating all avenues, as you may be 
surprised to find some are very sympathetic towards your ideals and enthusiasm.

Some venues may be so sympathetic to open source or non-profit organisations 
that they are willing to offer their facilities for free or at a reduced cost. 
Also consider the language used in how you present what you plan to do, as the 
idea of a "Conference" can mean different things to different people. You may
want to use the alternative description of "Symposium", as it emphasises more 
of the collective discussion aspects rather than a major corporate launch pad 
and series of lectures, which can be misconstrued as a commercial venture.

=head2 Researching A Venue

Before you submit your bid, you need to do a considerable amount of research 
regarding each venue. Some areas of research are obvious, while others may not
be an immediate consideration, but can cause delays if you haven't understood 
the implications. This venue information should then be included in your bid. 
However, since you don't know if you are going to win the bid, you can't 
actually book the venue yet, and as such some of the information may not be 
available to you.

Research several venues, not just the first one that looks like a good deal. 
This gives you a backup plan should anything go wrong and enables you compare 
the pros and cons of each venue.

=head2 The Rooms

=head3 General Requirements

YAPC::NA typically has around 300-500 attendees, while YAPC::Europe has about 
200-400. Consider how many people you expect to attend carefully, as the venue
must be able to accommodate them all comfortably. A YAPC traditionally has 1 
main room that can hold all the attendees, and at least 2 other rooms that are
able to hold 25%-50% of the attendees. If you plan to have more tracks, or have
a workshop/demo room, you will need to ensure that a reasonable number of 
people can fit in.

Rooms should have controlled temperature environments (air-conditioned or 
heated as needed). If your event is being held in an academic institution when 
students are not in residence, ensure that heating or cooling facilities will 
still be active.

=head3 Main Auditorium

The main room which is to hold the full assembly will require some form of 
public address (PA) system. This may already be provided, but if not you need to 
investigate local PA companies to provide something suitable. In order to allow 
speakers to move about the stage, investigate whether you can provide wireless 
microphones as well as podium mics.

Smaller rooms may not require a PA system, unless the capacity is expected to be 
large enough, where you will need to ensure that those at the back can still 
hear suitably. If in doubt, plan for a PA.

All rooms will require data projectors, a large screen together with wired 
and/or wireless Ethernet.

=head3 Floor Plan Layout

All the rooms should be close together. If you have 5 minutes between talks, 
ensure there is time for attendees to move between the furthest rooms.

Consider the location of toilets. Sitting in a lectures for a session can mean 
everyone waits until the breaks to avoid missing anything. Are the toilets close 
by, do they have enough located around where your lecture rooms, do they provide 
toilets for the disabled? Although this is unlikely to be a problem, remember 
that attendees will want to know where they are quickly, so mark them clearly 
both on any campus map you provide and with signs around the building.

=head3 Breakout Area

Ensure you have breakout areas. Not everyone attends the conference to listen to 
lectures for the whole duration of the conference. Are there hallways, access to 
indoor and/or outdoor seating areas, or even dedicated computer access rooms or 
cafeterias that could suitably be used as quiet areas or meeting points?

This may also be where the conference registration can take place, in which case 
ensure you allocate space and tables for registration and information booths.

=head3 Storage Room

It is worthwhile having a secure room or area where you are able to store 
supplies, including materials for all the attendees and all necessary equipment. 
On the last day of the conference many attendees will have to checkout of their 
accommodation in the morning, and many may well have large suitcases with them. 
If you can use a secure storage room to store suitcases and bags, you will earn 
lots of brownie points from attendees :)

=head2 Accessibility

Those with disabilities should still be able to attend your conference. Whether 
they are physically disabled, hearing impaired, visually impaired or need other 
accommodations, you should consider what options you have to ensure that they 
can enjoy the conference experience too. The venue may already have facilities 
for the hearing impaired (induction loops, dedicated headsets), or have 
alternative access for anyone wheelchair bound. Ensure you understand any 
limitations of the venue. Most public venues will be familiar with these issues, 
including things you might not think of.

=head2 Internet Connection & WiFi

WiFi internet access is a crucial requirement for YAPCs in this day and age. 
Typically over 80% of your attendees will have laptops or other mobile devices, 
so ensure that the venue has the bandwidth and network equipment that can cope 
with the capacity of all your attendees having access at the same time.

Some venues may already have a working WiFi network and be happy for you to use 
it. However, others may not have any internet connection at all and you may have 
to consider buying a broadband service and connecting up your LAN and WLAN. An 
existing network, that you are allowed to use and the venue can provide support 
for, may be more beneficial that trying to set up and administer the network 
yourself.

Any network should be secured, and should allow outbound access to the following 
ports; 22 (ssh), 80/8080 (http), 115 (sftp), 443 (ssl) and 6667 (irc). If 
further ports are required by attendees, you might want to suggest they use 
port-forwarding in some way.

Whether DHCP or NAT is in use, ensure the network can support addressing for 
approximately 120% of your attendees (many will have multiple devices). It is 
also worth investigating what maximum capacity the network can cope with, 
without degradation of service. While most will only be browsing the web and 
reading their email, several hundred people attempting to do this at once can 
put a strain on networks that are not used to it.

In previous years, some venues have provided terminal rooms, which have provided 
both terminals and ethernet ports for attendees to use. As the majority of your 
attendees are likely to have laptops and other mobile devices, having a terminal 
room is purely optional.

=head2 Location

Highlight where the venue is in relation to the accommodation, city centre and 
transport links.

Location is very important. If your best venue is in the middle of nowhere with 
limited rail and road infrastructure, and minimal access to food stores, pubs 
and restaurants, then you're likely to have a very unhappy group of attendees. 
The venue need not be in the city centre, but providing there are easily 
accessible train, tube and/or bus networks to accommodation, night-life and 
airports, it will make life easier for attendees getting to and from the venue.

Where can people go to eat and drink during the day? If your venue is an 
educational institution you may have a cafeteria available to you, but also 
remember that there are likely to be some attendees that have special dietary 
requirements. Are there food stores, bars/pubs, restaurants and/or take away 
outlets within a short walking distance that provide a bigger choice?

Where can everyone go in the evening? Are there suitable meeting places for the 
majority of attendees? The evening meeting points do not need to be near the 
venue, but they should be within easy reach of the hotels at least.

Also consider public safety in the area around the venue. Remember that you are 
asking some hardcore geeks to attend your conference, and most will be carrying 
large amounts of high-tech gadgetry around with them. Would you feel comfortable 
walking around the venue with a laptop, camera and mobile phone?

=head2 Venue Cost

YAPC is a grass-roots conference and you should do everything you can to keep 
costs low. This allows people like open source developers and students to attend 
on a limited budget. The venue is likely to be your highest cost item and it can 
exert significant pressure on your attempt to keep the cost down.

There are basically three choices with regard to the cost of the venue:

=over

=item 1. Work all of your connections and get venues donated or offered for very 
low cost because of your status as a not-for-profit.

=item 2. Book with standard conference venues and increase sponsorship levels to 
support the venue.

=item 3. Book with standard conference venues and charge high attendance fees to 
support the venue.

=back

So far, most YAPCs have been able to take advantage of option 1, some have 
successfully managed to operate on option 2, while option 3 has yet to ever be 
considered (hopefully it never will). Note that the venue committee will 
certainly take how you intend to cover costs into account when selecting the 
host group each year.

Although you can't actually book the venue yet, when you are investigating 
venues make sure you find out the following:

=over 

=item * What is required to book the venue? Deposit, signatures, insurance, etc.

=item * How long before the event can you book?

=item * Is someone else looking at your provisional dates?

=back

Once you win the bid, one of your first tasks is to book the venue and that 
should be easy if you have the answers to the above.

Why is this so important? Several YAPCs have had venues booked based on verbal 
commitments only to have things fall through because of misunderstandings. Get 
as much information as possible to avoid this.

=head2 Catering

Catering can be split into several parts, covering very different aspects of the 
catering facilities that you, the local area or the venue can provide. While not 
necessarily part of your bid proposal, there are some aspects of catering that 
you must bear in mind, and can be useful to consider with any discussions with 
the venue regarding any catering.

If you win the bid, ensure you communicate what catering you will provide to 
attendees prior to their arrival.

=head3 Dietary Requirements

With any catering provided, ensure you consider dietary preferences. Some of 
your attendees will be vegetarians or vegans, some may have food allergies or 
require lactose-free or low-carbohydrate meals, while others may have 
preferences based on their religious beliefs. Although you may not be able to 
cater for all preferences, at least trying to provide some alternative options 
will help to include, rather than alienate, many attendees.

Where food is being provided, ensure there is a vegetarian option. Also note 
that vegetarian does NOT equate to salad. Particularly if you are providing hot 
dishes, ensure that suitable equivalent vegetarian dishes are also available. 
Ask your potential attendees for advice if you are unsure, they will appreciate 
it.

Although not always possible, try and encourage your attendees to warn you in 
advance of any particular requirements they have, and investigate what you can 
reasonably do to accommodate them. Some will come prepared, while others may 
expect you to at least direct them to suitable alternative eating 
establishments.

=head3 Morning & Afternoon Breaks

You should schedule a 30 minute break during the morning and afternoon sessions, 
to give attendees a break from the presentations. During these breaks, ensure 
you can provide tea, coffee, water and possibly some soft drinks (sodas). When 
providing tea, while it might look great to provide a selection of fruit 
infusions, the majority of those wishing to have tea may actually prefer 
traditional tea (sometimes known as English Tea or Breakfast Tea), so make sure 
it is adequately provide for both in the morning and afternoon breaks.

If it's possible, try to provide something along the lines of biscuits, cake or 
fruit. This isn't always possible, and can drive your costs up, but it does help 
to keep your attendees well fed during the conference.

Some venue catering will already provide refreshments for breaks in the cost of 
the venue, but it is also something that you might be able to encourage 
corporate sponsorship for.

=head3 Lunch

Providing lunch is optional, and is usually dependent on a sponsor wanting to 
donate funds for this. However, it requires that the venue has suitable dining 
room facilities available to attendees. Regarding sponsorship, lunch time 
catering should be considered a low priority, and possibly something to only 
provide should you have the necessary funds to cover all other expenses.

If you are not providing lunch as part of the conference package, you must 
ensure that there are facilities nearby (e.g. university cafeteria, local cafes, 
restaurants or pubs), which are capable of supplying the full assembly with a 
lunch meal. Make recommendations, including any places to avoid, so that people 
have a good idea where to go, rather than wasting time finding places to eat.

Provide adequate directions to local facilities. While you may be familiar with 
your local area, remember that many of your attendees will not be, and some may 
not even speak the local language.  Maps, either printed Google Maps or local 
tourist maps can be a great help.

One option to consider, which was used by Copenhagen organisers in 2008 with a 
reasonable degree of success, was to provide a light lunch bag containing some 
sandwiches, a drink, a dessert and snack. It saved everyone hunting and queuing 
for food outside of the venue. If you choose this option ensure that vegetarians 
know which bags are for them, either by clearly marking the bags or physically 
separating the groups of bags. Also provide more vegetarian portions than there 
are vegetarians, as non-vegetarians may not like the meat option provided.

=head3 Conference Dinner

The Conference Dinner is always considered a "nice-to-have" and usually depends 
on your level of sponsorship funding. However, it is a great opportunity to 
gather together all the attendees on at least one evening for a meal. Usually 
this happens on the second day of the conference, and, inh the case of YAPC::NA, 
is incorporated with the Auction.

If you are hoping to provide a conference dinner for everyone, think about a 
location where you'll be able to hold everyone for a sit down meal. Some 
conferenc venues can accommodate the full assembly for a sit down meal, or you 
may have to investigate banqueting halls or hotels that can cater for everyone.

This is not a necessity for your bid, but it's a nice touch, so it's often worth 
considering when you are looking at your conference venue.

=head3 Early Arrivals Dinner

Again, this is not something to be particularly concerned about for your bid 
proposal, but you should revisit it nearer the event, should you be successful 
in your bid.

The Early Arrivals Dinner is typically for those that are arriving ahead of 
schedule and wish to meet up with everyone before the event. It takes place the 
night before the first day of the conference, and is a very informal event. 
Attendees are expected to pay for themselves, and the dinner is either of a 
buffet style, with one price for everyone planning to meet up, or individually 
priced menu options.

The meet up usually happens in a pub, bar or restaurant with private function 
room facilities, although it isn't unusual for the whole place to be taken over 
by YAPC attendees (something we'll come back to later).  Hopefully attendees 
will let you know whether they are planning to attend the Early Arrivals Dinner, 
so you should be able to book somewhere with a good idea of numbers.

The Early Arrivals Dinner is also a chance for pre-registration, and will reduce 
your time spent registering attendees when they arrive the following morning. 
Registering several hundred people in a single morning is very time consuming, 
and you will either end up delaying the start of the conference, or have several 
disgruntled attendees who missed the beginning of the event.

=head2 Choosing A Venue

Once you have researched all the possible venues in your area, your group of 
organisers will need to decide a selection criteria and rank each venue 
accordingly. Combine your lists and pick your top choice, ensuring you get all 
of the same information on your second and even third choice as well. This will 
give you a backup plan if the initial venue falls through. It's much easier to 
quickly proceed with your second choice if you already have all of the 
information.

Several YAPCs have had the primary venue fall through, so please don't assume 
you will get your first choice when the time comes to make a confirmed booking. 
For example, Birmingham Perl Mongers for YAPC::Europe::2006 approached over 40 
venues around the city, where the educational venues were more expensive than 
regular conference halls. The short list included a church, local government 
offices, the central library and a concert hall. The concert hall won. However, 
that was after contract negotiations fell through with a major university and a 
city centre hotel. Remember that some things can go wrong, even if you think you 
have secured a venue.

After you have a list of potential venues and have got enough detail about each 
of them, ask yourself some questions to narrow it down:

=over

=item * Would I choose this if I were on the selection committee?

=item * Would I personally want to go there?

=item * Which would be easiest for me to work as coordinator?

=back

Sometimes there are only one or two venues that stand out, but if you have more 
than that, consider yourself extremely fortunate, as you now have several backup 
plans.

