=head1 THE VENUE COMMITTEE

Z<venue_committee> The Venue Committee consists of previous organisers. So they all know what you 
have ahead of you. While they know some of the pitfalls, they don't necessarily 
know any you may face. However, they are there to help you. If you have any 
questions, feel free to approach them at any time. Even months before you submit 
your proposal.

The Venue Committee has several responsibilites. They make all initial official 
announcements, they vote on the proposals submitted, they help with any 
kick-start funding and will liaise with you throughout your preparations after 
winning the bid.

=head2 The Call For Venue

A Call For Venue announcement will be posted to several Perl news channels and 
websites, asking for groups to consider subnmitting a proposal to host a YAPC, 
usually about six months before the current year's event. The announcement will 
include the contact for the committee and how proposals should be submitted. 
Most importantly it contains a deadline for submissions. Do not forget this.

If you are planning to submit a proposal, please contact the venue committee and 
tell them of your intention. If for any reason your proposal doesn't appear by 
the deadline, they can at least contact you to find out if there was any delay 
or miscommunication beyond your control.

Also if you expect a delay in your submission, contact the venue committee as 
soon as possible. They are usually agreeable to a short extension, providing 
they know in advance.

The deadline is usually about 2 months before the current YAPC, to give the 
committee time to review proposals and prepare winners and presentations.

=head2 Venue Committee Timeline

From the Call For Venue deadline, the venue committee then begins a private 
discussion period, where they consider all the proposals. They have a tight 
timescale in which to discuss, respond and vote, so please ensure you respond to 
any questions they may have promptly. The typical timescale is as follows:

=over

=item * Week 1 - Venue Committee reviews proposals and prepares any additional 
questions they may have.

=item * Week 2 - Additional questions sent to proposal parties. There is a one 
week deadline for responding to the Venue Committee.

=item * Week 3 - Venue Committee reviews questions and discusses all proposals.

=item * Week 4 - Voting. Each member of the Venue Committee submits her or his 
vote.

=item * Week 5 - Venue Committee makes recommendation to the board (if 
appropriate), sends request for acknowledgement from winners, and 
commisserations to others.

=back

Note that a week above may be reduced to a few days if there is a very tight 
timescale needed.

As already noted, expect questions from the venue committee. Some may seem 
trivial, others you may consider to have already been answered, make sure you 
follow them all up clearly. It is important to note that they way you have 
presented your proposal may not be how the venue committee read it. If there is 
anything that they request clarification of, please don't respond by saying it's 
already in your proposal, they have asked because they want more detail or a 
clear explanation of what you provided. If in doubt, ask the venue committee for 
clarification as to what level of detail is required.

When the committee has received all the proposals and responses to any 
additional questions, they will discuss and vote on each team. The criteria for 
voting varies each year, with each member of the committee casting their vote. 
Do not feel too defeated if your proposal is not selected. Often it can be a 
close run choice between two proposals and the winner may be decided on minor 
details.

If you do not win, please contact the venue committee and ask them for feedback. 
If you are attending the current YAPC, a committee will likely already be 
planning to discuss your proposal with you, and more importantly encourage you 
to submit again for the next year. There have been several proposals that have 
been submitted repeatedly, many subsequently winning the opportunity to host the 
event.

=head2 Official Winner Announcements

There are usually three stages to announcing the winning bid. The first is to 
let the bidders themselves know privately. The winning bid will be told first, 
and be asked to confirm their acceptance. This is just in case that an 
unforeseen circumstance means they cannot continue with their bid. After this, 
the remaining proposing teams are told they have been unsuccessful. All teams 
are asked to keep the results a secret until the winning team is officially 
announced.

The second stage is to announce the winner to the conference attendees for the 
current year. This often features a short presentation by the winning team, to 
encourage the current attendees to come along to your conference. This may be 
your first opportunity for you to introduce yourself and your team to the 
attendees.

The third stage is then to announce the winners online to the Perl community, 
via the usual news and blog channels. This usually begins with an official 
announcement from the venue committee, but in the current age of mirco-blogging, 
the attendees may well get there first :)

After the official venue committee press release, you may wish to make your own 
press release. It is not required, and most organisers wait until they are ready 
for their first newsletter some months later, but you are more than welcome to 
do so. If you have something to announce early, such as the dates or the 
website, feel free to do so as it is often very much appreciated if you can.

Then the fun really begins!
