=head1 DESIGN YOUR WEBSITE

Z<website_design> You need an official site. This will be your primary focus point for 
announcements and information about the conference, and will be used before, 
during and after your event. It won't just be attendees and speakers that will 
be viewing your website, but corporate managers and potential sponsors, so make 
sure it looks like your putting on a professional conference that's worth 
sending employees to and/or providing funding for.

The website is where you announce the major activities leading up to and during 
the conference. As such, you should consider a content management system, such 
as ACT (formerly 'A Conference Toolkit'), and enable your team to add, edit and 
publish content. You will need someone to be the administrator of the site, to 
ensure that broken links and typos are fixed, and that everything is published 
in a consistent and professional style.

Create a wiki for the attendees (note that ACT contains a wiki as part of 
the tool suite). Your attendees will want to contribute to your conference, so 
give them that ability, and allow them to build upon the official content of 
the event. There are some basic pages you can include to get people started, but 
largely the content is driven by the users themselves. Be cautious of wiki 
spam, although using a login mechanism usually eliminates this.

The main website must prominently promote the sponsors as they sign up. This 
should be part of your sponsorship deal anyway, but it does help to increase 
interest among the community and can help raise the conference profile in search 
engine rankings. Include sponsor logos and links on every page (in a sidebar 
preferably) and have a more detailed sponsor page, which not only includes more 
details about your sponsors, but also provides information of how companies and 
individuals can sponsor your event.

Note that if you have chosen a theme for you conference, make sure you use it as 
a tag-line prominently. Aside from encouraging ideas for talks, it also gives 
your event a level of branding. Use branding consistently with your style and 
layout across the site, and include Perl and TPF/YEF logos as appropriate. This 
will help corporate managers and sponsors identify with you, and feel reassured 
that you are not an isolated event, but support by the whole community.

