=head1 LAUNCH YOUR WEBSITE

Z<website_launch>

If you haven't already done so, you will need to launch your website at least 
six months before your conference. The website will be your primary method of 
promoting the conference to sponsors, speakers, attendees and, perhaps most 
importantly of all, to companies that will be sending their employees to your 
conference. If the website looks a mess, it makes the employee's job much much 
harder to convince their boss why they should attend.

ACT now has lots of functionality to make managing the content of the website 
much easier, but you still need someone to design templates and logos that will 
impress visitors to the site. It doesn't have to be a state of the art site, but 
it does need to look professional.

When you launch the website include any news, newletters and sponsorship details 
that you may have already published. Your website will be your primary 
repository for online documentation about your event, so use it to promote to 
your event.

=head2 Maps & Directions

One task that often gets forgotten, and that your volunteers can help with is, 
is to collect or take photos of the area, not just the venue and hotels, but the 
transport routes from the airport, train stations and bus stations to get around 
your city/town, so that your attendees know what to look for when they arrive, 
and how to find their way when they first arrive.

Write a guide of how to get from the airport (or transportation hub) to the main 
hotels, from the main hotels to the venue and, if applicable, from the venue to 
the social meetups (including the Conference Dinner if there is one). Use the 
photos to highlight landmarks or signs that travellers need to be watchful for. 
Travel the routes yourself and make notes on which exit you take and any left or 
right turn you make out of a  building. Remember that small details count, as 
your attendees may well take a wrong turn because you haven't made it clear 
where they need to go.

Put the guide up on your website and reference it in newsletters. Attendees will 
often print the pages in advance, so try to create a minimal print version or 
PDF, if you can.

Maps are also useful. If you can, create a Google Map with pin-points to 
identify key places, such as the venue, hotels and transport points. In 
addition, you can include places to eat, drink and sightsee, as your attendees 
will appreciate these too. If you can find links to campus maps (if your venue 
is a educational establishment) or venue maps that identify the building in 
which you are hosting the event, include these as additional online links.

Provide links to any online transport maps and city maps, hosted by official 
train and bus companies or local government websites. This provides attendees 
with further resources for finding their way around the city before they get 
there.

